<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <title/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/igp-ttohr-math.css" type="text/css"/>
  </head>
  <body>
	<div class="galley-rw">
		<section class="frontmatter-rw Copyright-rw exclude-auto-rw page-open-auto-rw" id="Copyright1" epub:type="frontmatter copyright-page">


         <div class="block-rw copyright-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="copyright1">


            <p id="p4"><strong>The Theory of Heat Radiation, by Dr. Max Planck.</strong><br/>
&#169;2012-13 Infogrid Pacific Pte. Ltd. All rights reserved
            </p>

            <p id="p5">This book is released under a<br/>
Creative Commons, Attribution-No Derivative Works 3.0 License For more information on Creative Commons licenses visit:<a href="http://www.creativecommons.org"> http://www.creativecommons.org</a>
            </p>

            <p id="p6">This book is an expression of a public domain text source.</p>

            <p id="p7">The specific encoding and formatting and some modifications to the source text are copyright to Infogrid Pacific. The text content remains in the public domain.</p>

            <p id="p8">About the Author content is sourced from Wikipedia at<br/><a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Max_Planck">http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Max_Planck</a>
            </p>

            <div class="block-rw boxed-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="boxed1">


               <p id="p9">This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at <a href="http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/40030">Gutenberg</a>.
               </p>

            </div>

            <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p10">For more information on Infogrid Pacific visit:<br/><a href="http://www.infogridpacific.com">http://www.infogridpacific.com</a>
            </p>

            <p id="p11">Technical Information</p>

            <p id="p12">This document has been prepared as XHTML5 using IGP:Digital Publisher &#8211; an advanced content authoring, editing and production application. The output is available simultaneously in multiple print PDF editions, ePub2, ePub3, ePub Fixed layout and Kindle Fire formats. It can be viewed online in AZARDI.</p>

            <p id="p13">Contact Information<br/>
Email: <a href="mailto:sales@infogridpacific.com">sales@infogridpacific.com</a>
            </p>

         </div>

      </section>
	</div>
    <script src="../../acme.js"></script></body></html>
