<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <title>Translator&#8217;s Preface</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/igp-ttohr-math.css" type="text/css"/>
<link rel="prev" href="s004-TableOfContents-01.xhtml"/>
<link rel="next" href="s006-Preface-02.xhtml"/>
  </head>
  <body>
	<div class="galley-rw">
		<section class="frontmatter-rw Preface-rw exclude-auto-rw page-open-auto-rw" id="Preface1" epub:type="frontmatter preface">


         <div class="title-block-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="title-block2">


            <h1 id="h14">Translator&#8217;s Preface</h1>

         </div>

         <p id="p16">The present volume is a translation of the second edition of Professor <i>Planck&#8217;s</i> WAERMESTRAHLUNG (1913). The profoundly original ideas introduced by <i>Planck</i> in the endeavor to reconcile the electromagnetic theory of radiation with experimental facts have proven to be of the greatest importance in many parts of physics. Probably no single book since the appearance of <i>Clerk Maxwell&#8217;s</i> ELECTRICITY AND MAGNETISM has had a deeper influence on the development of physical theories. The great majority of English-speaking physicists are, of course, able to read the work in the language in which it was written, but I believe that many will welcome the opportunity offered by a translation to study the ideas set forth by <i>Planck</i> without the difficulties that frequently arise in attempting to follow a new and somewhat difficult line of reasoning in a foreign language.
         </p>

         <p id="p17">Recent developments of physical theories have placed the quantum of action in the foreground of interest. Questions regarding the bearing of the quantum theory on the law of equipartition of energy, its application to the theory of specific heats and to photoelectric effects, attempts to form some concrete idea of the physical significance of the quantum, that is, to devise a &#8220;model&#8221; for it, have created within the last few years a large and ever increasing literature. Professor <i>Planck</i> has, however, in this book confined himself exclusively to radiation phenomena and it has seemed to me probable that a brief r&#233;sum&#233; of this literature might prove useful to the reader who wishes to pursue the subject further. I have, therefore, with Professor <i>Planck&#8217;s</i> permission, given in an appendix a list of the most important papers on the subjects treated of in this book and others closely related to them. I have also added a short note on one or two derivations of formul&#230; where the treatment in the book seemed too brief or to present some difficulties.
         </p>

         <p id="p18">In preparing the translation I have been under obligation for advice and helpful suggestions to several friends and colleagues and especially to Professor A. W. Duff who has read the manuscript and the galley proof.</p>

         <p class="date-rw" id="date1">MORTON MASIUS.<br/>
WORCESTER, MASS.,<br/>
&#160; <i>February,</i> 1914.
         </p>

         <p id="p21">&#160;</p>

      </section>
	</div>
    <script src="../../acme.js"></script></body></html>
