<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <title>Ideal Linear Oscillators</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/igp-ttohr-math.css" type="text/css"/>
<script type="text/javascript"
  src="https://cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS-MML_HTMLorMML"></script>
<link rel="prev" href="s019-Chapter-009.xhtml"/>
<link rel="next" href="s021-Chapter-011.xhtml"/>
  </head>
  <body>
	<div class="galley-rw">
		<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" id="Chapter10" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">


         <div class="title-block-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="title-block17">


            <p class="title-num-rw" id="title-num13">Chapter III</p>

            <h1 id="h119">Ideal Linear Oscillators</h1>

         </div>

         <p id="p1034"><span class="num-seetarget-rw">135</span>. The main problem of the theory of heat radiation is to determine the energy distribution in the normal spectrum of black radiation, or, what amounts to the same thing, to find the function which has been left undetermined in the general expression of <i>Wien&#8217;s</i> displacement law <span class="ref-equation-rw">(119)</span>, the function which connects the entropy of a certain radiation with its energy. The purpose of this chapter is to develop some preliminary theorems leading to this solution. Now since, as we have seen in <span class="ref-seetarget-rw">Sec.&#160;48</span>, the normal energy distribution in a diathermanous medium cannot be established unless the medium exchanges radiation with an emitting and absorbing substance, it will be necessary for the treatment of this problem to consider more closely the processes which cause the creation and the destruction of heat rays, that is, the processes of emission and absorption. In view of the complexity of these processes and the difficulty of acquiring knowledge of any definite details regarding them, it would indeed be quite hopeless to expect to gain any certain results in this way, if it were not possible to use as a reliable guide in this obscure region the law of <i>Kirchhoff </i> derived in <span class="ref-seetarget-rw">Sec.&#160;51</span>. This law states that a vacuum completely enclosed by reflecting walls, in which any emitting and absorbing bodies are scattered in any arrangement whatever, assumes in the course of time the stationary state of black radiation, which is completely determined by one parameter only, namely, the temperature, and in particular does not depend on the number, the nature, and the arrangement of the material bodies present. Hence, for the investigation of the properties of the state of black radiation the nature of the bodies which are assumed to be in the vacuum is perfectly immaterial. In fact, it does not even matter whether such bodies really exist somewhere in nature, provided their existence and their properties are consistent with the laws of thermodynamics and electrodynamics. If, for any special arbitrary assumption regarding the nature and arrangement of emitting and absorbing systems, we can find a state of radiation in the surrounding vacuum which is distinguished by absolute stability, this state can be no other than that of black radiation.
         </p>

         <p id="p1035">Since, according to this law, we are free to choose any system whatever, we now select from all possible emitting and absorbing systems the simplest conceivable one, namely, one consisting of a large number&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1440"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1440-eq"><mi>N</mi></math></span> of similar stationary oscillators, each consisting of two poles, charged with equal quantities of electricity of opposite sign, which may move relatively to each other on a fixed straight line, the axis of the oscillator.
         </p>

         <p id="p1036">It is true that it would be more general and in closer accord with the conditions in nature to assume the vibrations to be those of an oscillator consisting of two poles, each of which has three degrees of freedom of motion instead of one, <i>i.e.</i>, to assume the vibrations as taking place in space instead of in a straight line only. Nevertheless we may, according to the fundamental principle stated above, restrict ourselves from the beginning to the treatment of one single component, without fear of any essential loss of generality of the conclusions we have in view.
         </p>

         <p id="p1037">It might, however, be questioned as a matter of principle, whether it is really permissible to think of the centers of mass of the oscillators as stationary, since, according to the kinetic theory of gases, all material particles which are contained in substances of finite temperature and free to move possess a certain finite mean kinetic energy of translatory motion. This objection, however, may also be removed by the consideration that the velocity is not fixed by the kinetic energy alone. We need only think of an oscillator as being loaded, say at its positive pole, with a comparatively large inert mass, which is perfectly neutral electrodynamically, in order to decrease its velocity for a given kinetic energy below any preassigned value whatever. Of course this consideration remains valid also, if, as is now frequently done, all inertia is reduced to electrodynamic action. For this action is at any rate of a kind quite different from the one to be considered in the following, and hence cannot influence it.</p>

         <p id="p1038">Let the state of such an oscillator be completely determined by its moment&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1441"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1441-eq"><mi>f</mi><mo>(</mo><mi>t</mi><mo>)</mo></math></span>, that is, by the product of the electric charge of the pole situated on the positive side of the axis and the pole distance, and by the derivative of&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1442"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1442-eq"><mi>f</mi></math></span> with respect to the time or
         </p>

         <div class="block-rw equation-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="equation204">


            <p id="p1039"><span class="num-equation-rw">(204)</span>
            </p>

            <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-348">


               <p id="p1040"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" class="equation" display="block" id="mathb-348-eq"><mfrac><mrow><mi>d</mi><mi>f</mi><mo>(</mo><mi>t</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mrow><mi>d</mi><mi>t</mi></mrow></mfrac><mo>=</mo><mi>&#7711;</mi><mo>(</mo><mi>t</mi><mo>)</mo><mo>.</mo><mstyle/><mstyle/></math></p>

            </div>

         </div>

         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1041">Let the energy of the oscillator be of the following simple form:</p>

         <div class="block-rw equation-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="equation205">


            <p id="p1042"><span class="num-equation-rw">(205)</span>
            </p>

            <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-349">


               <p id="p1043"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" class="equation" display="block" id="mathb-349-eq"><mi>U</mi><mo>=</mo><mfrac><mrow><mn>1</mn></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></mfrac><mi>K</mi><msup><mrow><mi>f</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></msup><mo>+</mo><mfrac><mrow><mn>1</mn></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></mfrac><mi>L</mi><msup><mrow><mi>&#7711;</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></msup><mo>,</mo><mstyle/><mstyle/></math></p>

            </div>

         </div>

         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1044">where <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1443"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1443-eq"><mi>K</mi></math></span>&#160;and&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1444"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1444-eq"><mi>L</mi></math></span> denote positive constants, which depend on the nature of the oscillator in some way that need not be discussed at this point.
         </p>

         <p id="p1045">If during its vibration an oscillator neither absorbed nor emitted any energy, its energy of vibration,&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1445"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1445-eq"><mi>U</mi></math></span>, would remain constant, and we would have:
         </p>

         <div class="block-rw equation-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="equation206">


            <p id="p1046"><span class="num-equation-rw">(205a)</span>
            </p>

            <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-350">


               <p id="p1047"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" class="equation" display="block" id="mathb-350-eq"><mi>d</mi><mi>U</mi><mo>=</mo><mi>K</mi><mi>f</mi><mspace width="0.3em"/><mi>d</mi><mi>f</mi><mo>+</mo><mi>L</mi><mi>&#7711;</mi><mspace width="0.3em"/><mi>d</mi><mi>&#7711;</mi><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mstyle/><mstyle/></math></p>

            </div>

         </div>

         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1048">or, on account of <span class="ref-equation-rw">(204)</span>,
         </p>

         <div class="block-rw equation-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="equation207">


            <p id="p1049"><span class="num-equation-rw">(206)</span>
            </p>

            <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-351">


               <p id="p1050"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" class="equation" display="block" id="mathb-351-eq"><mi>K</mi><mi>f</mi><mo>(</mo><mi>t</mi><mo>)</mo><mo>+</mo><mi>L</mi><mover accent="true"><mrow><mi>f</mi></mrow><mo>&#776;</mo></mover><mo>(</mo><mi>t</mi><mo>)</mo><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>.</mo><mstyle/><mstyle/></math></p>

            </div>

         </div>

         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1051">The general solution of this differential equation is found to be a purely periodical vibration:</p>

         <div class="block-rw equation-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="equation208">


            <p id="p1052"><span class="num-equation-rw">(207)</span>
            </p>

            <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-352">


               <p id="p1053"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" class="equation" display="block" id="mathb-352-eq"><mi>f</mi><mo>=</mo><mi>C</mi><mo> cos</mo><mo>(</mo><mn>2</mn><mi>&#960;</mi><mi>&#957;</mi><mi>t</mi><mo>&#8722;</mo><mi>&#952;</mi><mo>)</mo><mstyle/><mstyle/></math></p>

            </div>

         </div>

         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1054">where <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1446"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1446-eq"><mi>C</mi></math></span>&#160;and&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1447"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1447-eq"><mi>&#952;</mi></math></span> denote the integration constants and <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1448"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1448-eq"><mi>&#957;</mi></math></span>&#160;the number of vibrations per unit time:
         </p>

         <div class="block-rw equation-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="equation209">


            <p id="p1055"><span class="num-equation-rw">(208)</span>
            </p>

            <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-353">


               <p id="p1056"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" class="equation" display="block" id="mathb-353-eq"><mi>&#957;</mi><mo>=</mo><mfrac><mrow><mn>1</mn></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn><mi>&#960;</mi></mrow></mfrac><msqrt><mrow><mfrac><mrow><mi>K</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>L</mi></mrow></mfrac></mrow></msqrt><mo>.</mo><mstyle/><mstyle/></math></p>

            </div>

         </div>

         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1057"><span class="num-seetarget-rw">136</span>. If now the assumed system of oscillators is in a space traversed by heat rays, the energy of vibration,&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1449"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1449-eq"><mi>U</mi></math></span>, of an oscillator will not in general remain constant, but will be always changing by absorption and emission of energy. Without, for the present, considering in detail the laws to which these processes are subject, let us consider any one arbitrarily given thermodynamic state of the oscillators and calculate its entropy, irrespective of the surrounding field of radiation. In doing this we proceed entirely according to the principle advanced in the two preceding chapters, allowing, however, at every stage for the conditions caused by the peculiarities of the case in question.
         </p>

         <p id="p1058">The first question is: What determines the thermodynamic state of the system considered? For this purpose, according to <span class="ref-seetarget-rw">Sec.&#160;124</span>, the numbers <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1450"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1450-eq"><msub><mrow><mi>N</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>1</mn></mrow></msub></math></span>,&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1451"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1451-eq"><msub><mrow><mi>N</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></msub></math></span>, <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1452"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1452-eq"><msub><mrow><mi>N</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>3</mn></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo><mspace width="1em"/><mo>&#8230;</mo><mspace width="0.3em"/></math></span> of the oscillators, which lie in the region elements <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1453"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1453-eq"><mn>1</mn></math></span>,&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1454"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1454-eq"><mn>2</mn></math></span>, <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1455"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1455-eq"><mn>3</mn><mo>,</mo><mspace width="1em"/><mo>&#8230;</mo><mspace width="0.3em"/></math></span> of the &#8220;state space&#8221; must be given. The state space of an oscillator contains those coordinates which determine the microscopic state of an oscillator. In the case in question these are only two in number, namely, the moment&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1456"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1456-eq"><mi>f</mi></math></span> and the rate at which it varies,&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1457"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1457-eq"><mi>&#7711;</mi></math></span>, or instead of the latter the quantity
         </p>

         <div class="block-rw equation-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="equation210">


            <p id="p1059"><span class="num-equation-rw">(209)</span>
            </p>

            <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-354">


               <p id="p1060"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" class="equation" display="block" id="mathb-354-eq"><mi>&#968;</mi><mo>=</mo><mi>L</mi><mi>&#7711;</mi><mo>,</mo><mstyle/><mstyle/></math></p>

            </div>

         </div>

         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1061">which is of the dimensions of an impulse. The region element of the state plane is, according to the hypothesis of quanta (<span class="ref-seetarget-rw">Sec.&#160;126</span>), the double integral
         </p>

         <div class="block-rw equation-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="equation211">


            <p id="p1062"><span class="num-equation-rw">(210)</span>
            </p>

            <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-355">


               <p id="p1063"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" class="equation" display="block" id="mathb-355-eq"><mo mathsize="big">&#8748;</mo><mi>d</mi><mi>f</mi><mspace width="0.3em"/><mi>d</mi><mi>&#968;</mi><mo>=</mo><mi>h</mi><mo>.</mo><mstyle/><mstyle/></math></p>

            </div>

         </div>

         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1064">The quantity&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1458"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1458-eq"><mi>h</mi></math></span> is the same for all region elements. <i>A&#160;priori</i>, it might, however, depend also on the nature of the system considered, for example, on the frequency of the oscillators. The following simple consideration, however, leads to the assumption that <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1459"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1459-eq"><mi>h</mi></math></span>&#160;is a universal constant. We know from the generalized displacement law of <i>Wien</i> (equation <span class="ref-equation-rw">(119)</span>) that in the universal function, which gives the entropy radiation as dependent on the energy radiation, there must appear a universal constant of the dimension <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1460"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1460-eq"><mfrac><mrow><msup><mrow><mi>c</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>3</mn></mrow></msup><mstyle mathvariant="sans-serif"><mi>u</mi></mstyle></mrow><mrow><msup><mrow><mi>&#957;</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>3</mn></mrow></msup></mrow></mfrac></math></span> and this is of the dimension of a quantity of action<span class="ref-note-rw" id="rw-ref-note-47" epub:type="noteref"><a href="#rw-num-note-47">47</a></span> (<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1461"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1461-eq"><mtext>&#160;erg</mtext><mspace width="0.3em"/><mtext>&#160;sec</mtext><mo>.</mo></math></span>). Now, according to <span class="ref-equation-rw">(210)</span>, the quantity&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1462"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1462-eq"><mi>h</mi></math></span> has precisely this dimension, on which account we may denote it as &#8220;element of action&#8221; or &#8220;quantity element of action.&#8221; Hence, unless a second constant also enters, <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1463"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1463-eq"><mi>h</mi></math></span>&#160;cannot depend on any other physical quantities. <b> </b>
         </p>

         <p id="p1065"><span class="num-seetarget-rw">137</span>. The principal difference, compared with the calculations for an ideal gas in the preceding chapter, lies in the fact that we do not now assume the distribution densities <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1464"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1464-eq"><msub><mrow><mi>w</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>1</mn></mrow></msub></math></span>,&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1465"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1465-eq"><msub><mrow><mi>w</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></msub></math></span>, <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1466"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1466-eq"><msub><mrow><mi>w</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>3</mn></mrow></msub><mspace width="1em"/><mo>&#8230;</mo><mspace width="0.3em"/></math></span> of the oscillators among the separate region elements to vary but little from region to region as was assumed in <span class="ref-seetarget-rw">Sec.&#160;129</span>. Accordingly the <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1467"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1467-eq"><mi>w</mi></math></span>&#8217;s are not small, but finite proper fractions, and the summation over the region elements cannot be written as an integration.
         </p>

         <p id="p1066">In the first place, as regards the shape of the region elements, the fact that in the case of undisturbed vibrations of an oscillator the phase is always changing, whereas the amplitude remains constant, leads to the conclusion that, for the macroscopic state of the oscillators, the amplitudes only, not the phases, must be considered, or in other words the region elements in the <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1468"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1468-eq"><mi>f</mi><mi>&#968;</mi></math></span>&#160;plane are bounded by the curves <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1469"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1469-eq"><mi>C</mi><mo>=</mo><mtext>&#160;const</mtext><mo>.</mo></math></span>, that is, by ellipses, since from <span class="ref-equation-rw">(207)</span> and <span class="ref-equation-rw">(209)</span>
         </p>

         <div class="block-rw equation-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="equation212">


            <p id="p1067"><span class="num-equation-rw">(211)</span>
            </p>

            <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-356">


               <p id="p1068"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" class="equation" display="block" id="mathb-356-eq"><msup><mrow><mfenced close=")" open="(" separators=""><mrow><mfrac><mrow><mi>f</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>C</mi></mrow></mfrac></mrow></mfenced></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mrow><mfenced close=")" open="(" separators=""><mrow><mfrac><mrow><mi>&#968;</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn><mi>&#960;</mi><mi>&#957;</mi><mi>L</mi><mi>C</mi></mrow></mfrac></mrow></mfenced></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></msup><mo>=</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>.</mo><mstyle/><mstyle/></math></p>

            </div>

         </div>

         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1069">The semi-axes of such an ellipse are:</p>

         <div class="block-rw equation-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="equation213">


            <p id="p1070"><span class="num-equation-rw">(212)</span>
            </p>

            <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-357">


               <p id="p1071"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" class="equation" display="block" id="mathb-357-eq"><mi>a</mi><mo>=</mo><mi>C</mi><mspace width="1em"/><mtext>&#160;and</mtext><mspace width="1em"/><mi>b</mi><mo>=</mo><mn>2</mn><mi>&#960;</mi><mi>&#957;</mi><mi>L</mi><mi>C</mi><mo>.</mo><mstyle/><mstyle/></math></p>

            </div>

         </div>

         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1072">Accordingly the region elements <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1470"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1470-eq"><mn>1</mn></math></span>,&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1471"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1471-eq"><mn>2</mn></math></span>, <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1472"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1472-eq"><mn>3</mn><mo>,</mo><mspace width="1em"/><mo>&#8230;</mo><mspace width="0.3em"/></math></span> <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1473"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1473-eq"><mi>n</mi><mspace width="1em"/><mo>&#8230;</mo><mspace width="0.3em"/></math></span> are the concentric, similar, and similarly situated elliptic rings, which are determined by the increasing values of&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1474"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1474-eq"><mi>C</mi></math></span>:
         </p>

         <div class="block-rw equation-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="equation214">


            <p id="p1073"><span class="num-equation-rw">(213)</span>
            </p>

            <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-358">


               <p id="p1074"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" class="equation" display="block" id="mathb-358-eq"><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mspace width="1em"/><msub><mrow><mi>C</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>1</mn></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo><mspace width="1em"/><msub><mrow><mi>C</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo><mspace width="1em"/><msub><mrow><mi>C</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>3</mn></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo><mspace width="1em"/><mo>&#8230;</mo><mspace width="1em"/><msub><mrow><mi>C</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi><mo>&#8722;</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo><mspace width="1em"/><msub><mrow><mi>C</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub><mspace width="1em"/><mo>&#8230;</mo><mo>.</mo><mstyle/><mstyle/></math></p>

            </div>

         </div>

         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1075">The <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1475"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1475-eq"><mi>n</mi></math></span>th&#160;region element is that which is bounded by the ellipses <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1476"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1476-eq"><mi>C</mi><mo>=</mo><msub><mrow><mi>C</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi><mo>&#8722;</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msub></math></span> and <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1477"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1477-eq"><mi>C</mi><mo>=</mo><msub><mrow><mi>C</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub></math></span>. The first region element is the full ellipse&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1478"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1478-eq"><msub><mrow><mi>C</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>1</mn></mrow></msub></math></span>. All these rings have the same area&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1479"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1479-eq"><mi>h</mi></math></span>, which is found by subtracting the area of the full ellipse&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1480"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1480-eq"><msub><mrow><mi>C</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi><mo>&#8722;</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msub></math></span> from that of the full ellipse&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1481"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1481-eq"><msub><mrow><mi>C</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub></math></span>; hence
         </p>

         <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-359">


            <p id="p1076"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block" id="mathb-359-eq"><mi>h</mi><mo>=</mo><mo>(</mo><msub><mrow><mi>a</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub><msub><mrow><mi>b</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub><mo>&#8722;</mo><msub><mrow><mi>a</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi><mo>&#8722;</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msub><msub><mrow><mi>b</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi><mo>&#8722;</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msub><mo>)</mo><mi>&#960;</mi></math></p>

         </div>

         <p class="variable-rw" id="variable117">or, according to <span class="ref-equation-rw">(212)</span>,
         </p>

         <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-360">


            <p id="p1077"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block" id="mathb-360-eq"><mi>h</mi><mo>=</mo><mo>(</mo><msubsup><mrow><mi>C</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></msubsup><mo>&#8722;</mo><msubsup><mrow><mi>C</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi><mo>&#8722;</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></msubsup><mo>)</mo><mn>2</mn><msup><mrow><mi>&#960;</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></msup><mi>&#957;</mi><mi>L</mi><mo>,</mo></math></p>

         </div>

         <p class="variable-rw" id="variable118">where <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1482"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1482-eq"><mi>n</mi><mo>=</mo><mn>1</mn></math></span>, <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1483"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1483-eq"><mn>2</mn></math></span>, <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1484"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1484-eq"><mn>3</mn><mo>,</mo><mspace width="1em"/><mo>&#8230;</mo><mspace width="0.3em"/></math></span>.
         </p>

         <p id="p1078">From the additional fact that <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1485"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1485-eq"><msub><mrow><mi>C</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>0</mn></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn></math></span>, it follows that:
         </p>

         <div class="block-rw equation-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="equation215">


            <p id="p1079"><span class="num-equation-rw">(214)</span>
            </p>

            <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-361">


               <p id="p1080"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" class="equation" display="block" id="mathb-361-eq"><msubsup><mrow><mi>C</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></msubsup><mo>=</mo><mfrac><mrow><mi>n</mi><mi>h</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn><msup><mrow><mi>&#960;</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></msup><mi>&#957;</mi><mi>L</mi></mrow></mfrac><mo>.</mo><mstyle/><mstyle/></math></p>

            </div>

         </div>

         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1081">Thus the semi-axes of the bounding ellipses are in the ratio of the square roots of the integral numbers. <b> </b>
         </p>

         <p id="p1082"><span class="num-seetarget-rw">138</span>. The thermodynamic state of the system of oscillators is fixed by the fact that the values of the distribution densities <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1486"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1486-eq"><msub><mrow><mi>w</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>1</mn></mrow></msub></math></span>,&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1487"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1487-eq"><msub><mrow><mi>w</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></msub></math></span>, <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1488"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1488-eq"><msub><mrow><mi>w</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>3</mn></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo><mspace width="1em"/><mo>&#8230;</mo><mspace width="0.3em"/></math></span> of the oscillators among the separate region elements are given. <em>Within</em> a region element the distribution of the oscillators is according to the law of elemental chaos (<span class="ref-seetarget-rw">Sec.&#160;122</span>), <i>i.e.</i>,&#160;it is approximately <em>uniform</em>.
         </p>

         <p id="p1083">These data suffice for calculating the entropy&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1489"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1489-eq"><mi>S</mi></math></span> as well as the energy&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1490"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1490-eq"><mi>E</mi></math></span> of the system in the given state, the former quantity directly from <span class="ref-equation-rw">(173)</span>, the latter by the aid of <span class="ref-equation-rw">(205)</span>. It must be kept in mind in the calculation that, since the energy varies appreciably within a region element, the energy&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1491"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1491-eq"><msub><mrow><mi>E</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub></math></span> of all those oscillators which lie in the <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1492"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1492-eq"><mi>n</mi></math></span>th&#160;region element is to be found by an integration. Then the whole energy&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1493"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1493-eq"><mi>E</mi></math></span> of the system is:
         </p>

         <div class="block-rw equation-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="equation216">


            <p id="p1084"><span class="num-equation-rw">(215)</span>
            </p>

            <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-362">


               <p id="p1085"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" class="equation" display="block" id="mathb-362-eq"><mi>E</mi><mo>=</mo><msub><mrow><mi>E</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>1</mn></mrow></msub><mo>+</mo><msub><mrow><mi>E</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></msub><mo>+</mo><mo>&#8230;</mo><msub><mrow><mi>E</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub><mo>+</mo><mo>&#8230;</mo><mo>.</mo><mstyle/><mstyle/></math></p>

            </div>

         </div>

         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1086"><span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1494"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1494-eq"><msub><mrow><mi>E</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub></math></span>&#160;may be calculated with the help of the law that within every region element the oscillators are uniformly distributed. If the <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1495"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1495-eq"><mi>n</mi></math></span>th&#160;region element contains, all told, <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1496"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1496-eq"><msub><mrow><mi>N</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub></math></span>&#160;oscillators, there are per unit area <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1497"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1497-eq"><mfrac><mrow><msub><mrow><mi>N</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub></mrow><mrow><mi>h</mi></mrow></mfrac></math></span>&#160;oscillators and hence <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1498"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1498-eq"><mfrac><mrow><msub><mrow><mi>N</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub></mrow><mrow><mi>h</mi></mrow></mfrac><mspace width="0.3em"/><mi>d</mi><mi>f</mi><mo>&#8901;</mo><mi>d</mi><mi>&#968;</mi></math></span> per element of area. Hence we have:
         </p>

         <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-363">


            <p id="p1087"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block" id="mathb-363-eq"><msub><mrow><mi>E</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mfrac><mrow><msub><mrow><mi>N</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub></mrow><mrow><mi>h</mi></mrow></mfrac><mo>&#8748;</mo><mi>U</mi><mspace width="0.3em"/><mi>d</mi><mi>f</mi><mspace width="0.3em"/><mi>d</mi><mi>&#968;</mi><mo>.</mo></math></p>

         </div>

         <p class="variable-rw" id="variable119">In performing the integration, instead of <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1499"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1499-eq"><mi>f</mi></math></span>&#160;and&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1500"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1500-eq"><mi>&#968;</mi></math></span> we take <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1501"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1501-eq"><mi>C</mi></math></span>&#160;and&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1502"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1502-eq"><mi>&#966;</mi></math></span>, as new variables, and since according to <span class="ref-equation-rw">(211)</span>,
         </p>

         <div class="block-rw equation-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="equation217">


            <p id="p1088"><span class="num-equation-rw">(216)</span>
            </p>

            <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-364">


               <p id="p1089"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" class="equation" display="block" id="mathb-364-eq"><mi>f</mi><mo>=</mo><mi>C</mi><mo> cos</mo><mi>&#966;</mi><mspace width="2em"/><mi>&#968;</mi><mo>=</mo><mn>2</mn><mi>&#960;</mi><mi>&#957;</mi><mi>L</mi><mi>C</mi><mo> sin</mo><mi>&#966;</mi><mstyle/><mstyle/></math></p>

            </div>

         </div>

         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1090">we get:</p>

         <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-365">


            <p id="p1091"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block" id="mathb-365-eq"><msub><mrow><mi>E</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mn>2</mn><mi>&#960;</mi><mi>&#957;</mi><mi>L</mi><mfrac><mrow><msub><mrow><mi>N</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub></mrow><mrow><mi>h</mi></mrow></mfrac><mo>&#8748;</mo><mi>U</mi><mi>C</mi><mspace width="0.3em"/><mi>d</mi><mi>C</mi><mspace width="0.3em"/><mi>d</mi><mi>&#966;</mi></math></p>

         </div>

         <p class="variable-rw" id="variable120">to be integrated with respect to&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1503"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1503-eq"><mi>&#966;</mi></math></span> from <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1504"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1504-eq"><mn>0</mn></math></span> to&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1505"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1505-eq"><mn>2</mn><mi>&#960;</mi></math></span> and with respect to&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1506"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1506-eq"><mi>C</mi></math></span> from <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1507"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1507-eq"><msub><mrow><mi>C</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi><mo>&#8722;</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msub></math></span> to&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1508"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1508-eq"><msub><mrow><mi>C</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub></math></span>. If we substitute from <span class="ref-equation-rw">(205)</span>, <span class="ref-equation-rw">(209)</span> and <span class="ref-equation-rw">(216)</span>
         </p>

         <div class="block-rw equation-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="equation218">


            <p id="p1092"><span class="num-equation-rw">(217)</span>
            </p>

            <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-366">


               <p id="p1093"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" class="equation" display="block" id="mathb-366-eq"><mi>U</mi><mo>=</mo><mfrac><mrow><mn>1</mn></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></mfrac><mi>K</mi><msup><mrow><mi>C</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></msup><mo>,</mo><mstyle/><mstyle/></math></p>

            </div>

         </div>

         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1094">we obtain by integration</p>

         <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-367">


            <p id="p1095"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block" id="mathb-367-eq"><msub><mrow><mi>E</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mfrac><mrow><msup><mrow><mi>&#960;</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></msup></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></mfrac><mi>&#957;</mi><mi>L</mi><mi>K</mi><mfrac><mrow><msub><mrow><mi>N</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub></mrow><mrow><mi>h</mi></mrow></mfrac><mo>(</mo><msubsup><mrow><mi>C</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>4</mn></mrow></msubsup><mo>&#8722;</mo><msubsup><mrow><mi>C</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi><mo>&#8722;</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow><mrow><mn>4</mn></mrow></msubsup><mo>)</mo></math></p>

         </div>

         <p class="variable-rw" id="variable121">and from <span class="ref-equation-rw">(214)</span>&#160; and <span class="ref-equation-rw">(208)</span>:
         </p>

         <div class="block-rw equation-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="equation219">


            <p id="p1096"><span class="num-equation-rw">(218)</span>
            </p>

            <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-368">


               <p id="p1097"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" class="equation" display="block" id="mathb-368-eq"><msub><mrow><mi>E</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><msub><mrow><mi>N</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub><mo>(</mo><mi>n</mi><mo>&#8722;</mo><mfrac><mrow><mn>1</mn></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></mfrac><mo>)</mo><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi><mo>=</mo><mi>N</mi><msub><mrow><mi>w</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub><mo>(</mo><mi>n</mi><mo>&#8722;</mo><mfrac><mrow><mn>1</mn></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></mfrac><mo>)</mo><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi><mo>,</mo><mstyle/><mstyle/></math></p>

            </div>

         </div>

         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1098">that is, the mean energy of an oscillator in the <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1509"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1509-eq"><mi>n</mi></math></span>th&#160;region element is <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1510"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1510-eq"><mo>(</mo><mi>n</mi><mo>&#8722;</mo><mfrac><mrow><mn>1</mn></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></mfrac><mo>)</mo><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi></math></span>. This is exactly the arithmetic mean of the energies <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1511"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1511-eq"><mo>(</mo><mi>n</mi><mo>&#8722;</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>)</mo><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi></math></span> and&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1512"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1512-eq"><mi>n</mi><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi></math></span> which correspond to the two ellipses <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1513"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1513-eq"><mi>C</mi><mo>=</mo><msub><mrow><mi>C</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi><mo>&#8722;</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msub></math></span> and <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1514"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1514-eq"><mi>C</mi><mo>=</mo><msub><mrow><mi>C</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub></math></span> bounding the region, as may be seen from <span class="ref-equation-rw">(217)</span>, if the values of <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1515"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1515-eq"><msub><mrow><mi>C</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi><mo>&#8722;</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msub></math></span>&#160;and&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1516"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1516-eq"><msub><mrow><mi>C</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub></math></span> are therein substituted from <span class="ref-equation-rw">(214)</span>.
         </p>

         <p id="p1099">The total energy&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1517"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1517-eq"><mi>E</mi></math></span> is, according to <span class="ref-equation-rw">(215)</span>,
         </p>

         <div class="block-rw equation-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="equation220">


            <p id="p1100"><span class="num-equation-rw">(219)</span>
            </p>

            <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-369">


               <p id="p1101"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" class="equation" display="block" id="mathb-369-eq"><mi>E</mi><mo>=</mo><mi>N</mi><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi><munderover accent="false" accentunder="false"><mrow><mo mathsize="big">&#8721;</mo></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi><mo>=</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi><mo>=</mo><mi>&#8734;</mi></mrow></munderover><mo>(</mo><mi>n</mi><mo>&#8722;</mo><mfrac><mrow><mn>1</mn></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></mfrac><mo>)</mo><msub><mrow><mi>w</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub><mo>.</mo><mstyle/><mstyle/></math></p>

            </div>

         </div>

         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1102"><span class="num-seetarget-rw">139</span>. Let us now consider the state of thermodynamic equilibrium of the oscillators. According to the second principle of thermodynamics, the entropy&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1518"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1518-eq"><mi>S</mi></math></span> is in that case a maximum for a given energy&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1519"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1519-eq"><mi>E</mi></math></span>. Hence we assume <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1520"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1520-eq"><mi>E</mi></math></span> in <span class="ref-equation-rw">(219)</span> as given. Then from <span class="ref-equation-rw">(179)</span> we have for the state of equilibrium:
         </p>

         <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-370">


            <p id="p1103"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block" id="mathb-370-eq"><mi>&#948;</mi><mi>S</mi><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>=</mo><msubsup><mrow><mo> &#8721;</mo></mrow><mrow><mn>1</mn></mrow><mrow><mi>&#8734;</mi></mrow></msubsup><mo>(</mo><mo>log</mo><msub><mrow><mi>w</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub><mo>+</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>)</mo><mspace width="0.3em"/><mi>&#948;</mi><msub><mrow><mi>w</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo></math></p>

         </div>

         <p class="variable-rw" id="variable122">where according to <span class="ref-equation-rw">(167)</span> and <span class="ref-equation-rw">(219)</span>
         </p>

         <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-371">


            <p id="p1104"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block" id="mathb-371-eq"><msubsup><mrow><mo>&#8721;</mo></mrow><mrow><mn>1</mn></mrow><mrow><mi>&#8734;</mi></mrow></msubsup><mi>&#948;</mi><msub><mrow><mi>w</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn><mspace width="1em"/><mtext>&#160;and</mtext><mspace width="1em"/><msubsup><mrow><mo> &#8721;</mo></mrow><mrow><mn>1</mn></mrow><mrow><mi>&#8734;</mi></mrow></msubsup><mo>(</mo><mi>n</mi><mo>&#8722;</mo><mfrac><mrow><mn>1</mn></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></mfrac><mo>)</mo><mspace width="0.3em"/><mi>&#948;</mi><msub><mrow><mi>w</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>.</mo></math></p>

         </div>

         <p class="variable-rw" id="variable123">From these relations we find:</p>

         <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-372">


            <p id="p1105"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block" id="mathb-372-eq"><mo>log</mo><msub><mrow><mi>w</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub><mo>+</mo><mi>&#946;</mi><mi>n</mi><mo>+</mo><mtext>&#160;const</mtext><mo>.</mo><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn></math></p>

         </div>

         <p class="variable-rw" id="variable124">or</p>

         <div class="block-rw equation-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="equation221">


            <p id="p1106"><span class="num-equation-rw">(220)</span>
            </p>

            <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-373">


               <p id="p1107"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" class="equation" display="block" id="mathb-373-eq"><msub><mrow><mi>w</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mi>&#945;</mi><msup><mrow><mi>&#947;</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msup><mo>.</mo><mstyle/><mstyle/></math></p>

            </div>

         </div>

         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1108">The values of the constants <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1521"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1521-eq"><mi>&#945;</mi></math></span>&#160;and&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1522"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1522-eq"><mi>&#947;</mi></math></span> follow from equations <span class="ref-equation-rw">(167)</span> and <span class="ref-equation-rw">(219)</span>:
         </p>

         <div class="block-rw equation-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="equation222">


            <p id="p1109"><span class="num-equation-rw">(221)</span>
            </p>

            <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-374">


               <p id="p1110"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" class="equation" display="block" id="mathb-374-eq"><mi>&#945;</mi><mo>=</mo><mfrac><mrow><mn>2</mn><mi>N</mi><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn><mi>E</mi><mo>&#8722;</mo><mi>N</mi><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi></mrow></mfrac><mspace width="2em"/><mi>&#947;</mi><mo>=</mo><mfrac><mrow><mn>2</mn><mi>E</mi><mo>&#8722;</mo><mi>N</mi><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn><mi>E</mi><mo>+</mo><mi>N</mi><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi></mrow></mfrac><mo>.</mo><mstyle/><mstyle/></math></p>

            </div>

         </div>

         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1111">Since <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1523"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1523-eq"><msub><mrow><mi>w</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>n</mi></mrow></msub></math></span>&#160;is essentially positive it follows that equilibrium is not possible in the system of oscillators considered unless the total energy&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1524"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1524-eq"><mi>E</mi></math></span> has a greater value than&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1525"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1525-eq"><mfrac><mrow><mi>N</mi><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></mfrac></math></span>, that is unless the mean energy of the oscillators is at least&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1526"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1526-eq"><mfrac><mrow><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></mfrac></math></span>. This, according to&#160;(218), is the mean energy of the oscillators lying in the first region element. In fact, in this extreme case all <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1527"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1527-eq"><mi>N</mi></math></span> oscillators lie in the first region element, the region of smallest energy; within this element they are arranged uniformly.
         </p>

         <p id="p1112">The entropy&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1528"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1528-eq"><mi>S</mi></math></span> of the system, which is in thermodynamic equilibrium, is found by combining <span class="ref-equation-rw">(173)</span> with <span class="ref-equation-rw">(220)</span> and <span class="ref-equation-rw">(221)</span>
         </p>

         <div class="block-rw equation-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="equation223">


            <p id="p1113"><span class="num-equation-rw">(222)</span>
            </p>

            <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-375">


               <p id="p1114"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block" id="mathb-375-eq"><mtable columnalign="left"><mtr><mtd columnalign="right"><mi>S</mi><mo>=</mo></mtd><mtd><mi>k</mi><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo fence="true" mathsize="2.03em">{</mo><mrow><mfenced close=")" open="(" separators=""><mrow><mfrac><mrow><mi>E</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>N</mi><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi></mrow></mfrac><mo>+</mo><mfrac><mrow><mn>1</mn></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></mfrac></mrow></mfenced><mo> log</mo><mfenced close=")" open="(" separators=""><mrow><mfrac><mrow><mi>E</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>N</mi><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi></mrow></mfrac><mo>+</mo><mfrac><mrow><mn>1</mn></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></mfrac></mrow></mfenced><mspace width="2em"/></mrow></mrow></mtd><mtd columnalign="right"/><mtd><mspace width="2em"/></mtd></mtr><mtr><mtd columnalign="right"/><mtd><mo>&#8722;</mo><mfenced close=")" open="(" separators=""><mrow><mfrac><mrow><mi>E</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>N</mi><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi></mrow></mfrac><mo>&#8722;</mo><mfrac><mrow><mn>1</mn></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></mfrac></mrow></mfenced><mo> log</mo><mfenced close=")" open="(" separators=""><mrow><mfrac><mrow><mi>E</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>N</mi><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi></mrow></mfrac><mo>&#8722;</mo><mfrac><mrow><mn>1</mn></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></mfrac></mrow></mfenced><mo fence="true" mathsize="2.03em">}</mo><mo>.</mo><mstyle/><mspace width="2em"/></mtd></mtr></mtable></math></p>

            </div>

         </div>

         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1115"><span class="num-seetarget-rw">140</span>. The connection between energy and entropy just obtained allows furthermore a certain conclusion as regards the temperature. For from the equation of the second principle of thermodynamics, <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1529"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1529-eq"><mi>d</mi><mi>S</mi><mo>=</mo><mfrac><mrow><mi>d</mi><mi>E</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>T</mi></mrow></mfrac></math></span> and from differentiation of <span class="ref-equation-rw">(222)</span> with respect to&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1530"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1530-eq"><mi>E</mi></math></span> it follows that
         </p>

         <div class="block-rw equation-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="equation224">


            <p id="p1116"><span class="num-equation-rw">(223)</span>
            </p>

            <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-376">


               <p id="p1117"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" class="equation" display="block" id="mathb-376-eq"><mi>E</mi><mo>=</mo><mi>N</mi><mfrac><mrow><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></mfrac><mspace width="0.3em"/><mfrac><mrow><mn>1</mn><mo>+</mo><msup><mrow><mi>e</mi></mrow><mrow><mo>&#8722;</mo><mfrac><mrow><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>k</mi><mi>T</mi></mrow></mfrac></mrow></msup></mrow><mrow><mn>1</mn><mo>&#8722;</mo><msup><mrow><mi>e</mi></mrow><mrow><mo>&#8722;</mo><mfrac><mrow><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>k</mi><mi>T</mi></mrow></mfrac></mrow></msup></mrow></mfrac><mo>=</mo><mi>N</mi><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi><mfenced close=")" open="(" separators=""><mrow><mfrac><mrow><mn>1</mn></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></mfrac><mo>+</mo><mfrac><mrow><mn>1</mn></mrow><mrow><msup><mrow><mi>e</mi></mrow><mrow><mfrac><mrow><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>k</mi><mi>T</mi></mrow></mfrac></mrow></msup><mo>&#8722;</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></mfrac></mrow></mfenced><mo>.</mo><mstyle/><mstyle/></math></p>

            </div>

         </div>

         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1118">Hence, for the zero point of the absolute temperature&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1531"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1531-eq"><mi>E</mi></math></span> becomes, not&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1532"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1532-eq"><mn>0</mn></math></span>, but&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1533"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1533-eq"><mi>N</mi><mfrac><mrow><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></mfrac></math></span>. This is the extreme case discussed in the preceding paragraph, which just allows thermodynamic equilibrium to exist. That the oscillators are said to perform vibrations even at the temperature zero, the mean energy of which is as large as&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1534"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1534-eq"><mfrac><mrow><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></mfrac></math></span> and hence may become quite large for rapid vibrations, may at first sight seem strange. It seems to me, however, that certain facts point to the existence, inside the atoms, of vibrations independent of the temperature and supplied with appreciable energy, which need only a small suitable excitation to become evident externally. For example, the velocity, sometimes very large, of secondary cathode rays produced by Roentgen rays, and that of electrons liberated by photoelectric effect are independent of the temperature of the metal and of the intensity of the exciting radiation. Moreover the radioactive energies are also independent of the temperature. It is also well known that the close connection between the inertia of matter and its energy as postulated by the relativity principle leads to the assumption of very appreciable quantities of intra-atomic energy even at the zero of absolute temperature.
         </p>

         <p id="p1119">For the extreme case, <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1535"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1535-eq"><mi>T</mi><mo>=</mo><mi>&#8734;</mi></math></span>, we find from <span class="ref-equation-rw">(223)</span> that
         </p>

         <div class="block-rw equation-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="equation225">


            <p id="p1120"><span class="num-equation-rw">(224)</span>
            </p>

            <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-377">


               <p id="p1121"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" class="equation" display="block" id="mathb-377-eq"><mi>E</mi><mo>=</mo><mi>N</mi><mi>k</mi><mi>T</mi><mo>,</mo><mstyle/><mstyle/></math></p>

            </div>

         </div>

         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1122"><i>i.e.</i>, the energy is proportional to the temperature and independent of the size of the quantum of action,&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1536"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1536-eq"><mi>h</mi></math></span>, and of the nature of the oscillators. It is of interest to compare this value of the energy of vibration&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1537"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1537-eq"><mi>E</mi></math></span> of the system of oscillators, which holds at high temperatures, with the kinetic energy&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1538"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1538-eq"><mi>L</mi></math></span> of the molecular motion of an ideal monatomic gas at the same temperature as calculated in <span class="ref-equation-rw">(200)</span>. From the comparison it follows that
         </p>

         <div class="block-rw equation-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="equation226">


            <p id="p1123"><span class="num-equation-rw">(225)</span>
            </p>

            <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-378">


               <p id="p1124"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" class="equation" display="block" id="mathb-378-eq"><mi>E</mi><mo>=</mo><mfrac><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow><mrow><mn>3</mn></mrow></mfrac><mi>L</mi><mo>.</mo><mstyle/><mstyle/></math></p>

            </div>

         </div>

         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1125">This simple relation is caused by the fact that for high temperatures the contents of the hypothesis of quanta coincide with those of the classical statistical mechanics. Then the absolute magnitude of the region element, <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1539"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1539-eq"><mi>G</mi></math></span>&#160;or <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1540"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1540-eq"><mi>h</mi></math></span> respectively, becomes physically unimportant (compare <span class="ref-seetarget-rw">Sec.&#160;125</span>) and we have the simple law of equipartition of the energy among all variables in question (see below <span class="ref-seetarget-rw">Sec.&#160;169</span>). The factor&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1541"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1541-eq"><mfrac><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow><mrow><mn>3</mn></mrow></mfrac></math></span> in equation <span class="ref-equation-rw">(225)</span> is due to the fact that the kinetic energy of a moving molecule depends on three variables (<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1542"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1542-eq"><mi>&#958;</mi></math></span>,&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1543"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1543-eq"><mi>&#951;</mi></math></span>,&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1544"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1544-eq"><mi>&#950;</mi></math></span>,) and the energy of a vibrating oscillator on only two (<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1545"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1545-eq"><mi>f</mi></math></span>,&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1546"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1546-eq"><mi>&#968;</mi></math></span>).
         </p>

         <p id="p1126">The heat capacity of the system of oscillators in question is, from <span class="ref-equation-rw">(223)</span>,
         </p>

         <div class="block-rw equation-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="equation227">


            <p id="p1127"><span class="num-equation-rw">(226)</span>
            </p>

            <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-379">


               <p id="p1128"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" class="equation" display="block" id="mathb-379-eq"><mfrac><mrow><mi>d</mi><mi>E</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>d</mi><mi>T</mi></mrow></mfrac><mo>=</mo><mi>N</mi><mi>k</mi><msup><mrow><mfenced close=")" open="(" separators=""><mrow><mfrac><mrow><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>k</mi><mi>T</mi></mrow></mfrac></mrow></mfenced></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></msup><mfrac><mrow><msup><mrow><mi>e</mi></mrow><mrow><mfrac><mrow><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>k</mi><mi>T</mi></mrow></mfrac></mrow></msup></mrow><mrow><msup><mrow><mo>(</mo><msup><mrow><mi>e</mi></mrow><mrow><mfrac><mrow><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>k</mi><mi>T</mi></mrow></mfrac></mrow></msup><mo>&#8722;</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>)</mo></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn></mrow></msup></mrow></mfrac><mo>.</mo><mstyle/><mstyle/></math></p>

            </div>

         </div>

         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1129">It vanishes for <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1547"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1547-eq"><mi>T</mi><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn></math></span> and becomes equal to&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1548"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1548-eq"><mi>N</mi><mi>k</mi></math></span> for <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1549"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1549-eq"><mi>T</mi><mo>=</mo><mi>&#8734;</mi></math></span>. <i>A.&#160;Einstein</i><span class="ref-note-rw" id="rw-ref-note-48" epub:type="noteref"><a href="#rw-num-note-48">48</a></span> has made an important application of this equation to the heat capacity of solid bodies, but a closer discussion of this would be beyond the scope of the investigations to be made in this book.
         </p>

         <p id="p1130">For the constants <span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1550"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1550-eq"><mi>&#945;</mi></math></span>&#160;and&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1551"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1551-eq"><mi>&#947;</mi></math></span> in the expression <span class="ref-equation-rw">(220)</span> for the distribution density&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1552"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1552-eq"><mi>w</mi></math></span> we find from <span class="ref-equation-rw">(221)</span>:
         </p>

         <div class="block-rw equation-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="equation228">


            <p id="p1131"><span class="num-equation-rw">(227)</span>
            </p>

            <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-380">


               <p id="p1132"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" class="equation" display="block" id="mathb-380-eq"><mi>&#945;</mi><mo>=</mo><msup><mrow><mi>e</mi></mrow><mrow><mfrac><mrow><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>k</mi><mi>T</mi></mrow></mfrac></mrow></msup><mo>&#8722;</mo><mn>1</mn><mspace width="2em"/><mi>&#947;</mi><mo>=</mo><msup><mrow><mi>e</mi></mrow><mrow><mo>&#8722;</mo><mfrac><mrow><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>k</mi><mi>T</mi></mrow></mfrac></mrow></msup><mstyle/><mstyle/></math></p>

            </div>

         </div>

         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1133">and finally for the entropy&#160;<span class="mathml-rw" id="mathi-1553"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" id="mathi-1553-eq"><mi>S</mi></math></span> of our system as a function of temperature:
         </p>

         <div class="block-rw equation-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="equation229">


            <p id="p1134"><span class="num-equation-rw">(228)</span>
            </p>

            <div class="mathml-rw" id="mathb-381">


               <p id="p1135"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" class="equation" display="block" id="mathb-381-eq"><mi>S</mi><mo>=</mo><mi>k</mi><mi>N</mi><mfenced close="}" open="{" separators=""><mrow><mfrac><mrow><mfrac><mrow><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>k</mi><mi>T</mi></mrow></mfrac></mrow><mrow><msup><mrow><mi>e</mi></mrow><mrow><mfrac><mrow><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>k</mi><mi>T</mi></mrow></mfrac><mo>&#8722;</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup></mrow></mfrac><mo>&#8722;</mo><mo> log</mo><mfenced close=")" open="(" separators=""><mrow><mn>1</mn><mo>&#8722;</mo><msup><mrow><mi>e</mi></mrow><mrow><mo>&#8722;</mo><mfrac><mrow><mi>h</mi><mi>&#957;</mi></mrow><mrow><mi>k</mi><mi>T</mi></mrow></mfrac></mrow></msup></mrow></mfenced></mrow></mfenced><mo>.</mo><mstyle/><mstyle/></math></p>

            </div>

         </div>

      <div class="list-named-rw list-notes-rw exclude-auto-rw" id="list-notes10" epub:type="rearnotes">


            

            <h4 id="h410">Chapter III</h4>

            <p class="marks" id="marks40" epub:type="rearnote"><span class="num-note-rw" id="rw-num-note-47"><a href="#rw-ref-note-47">47</a></span>The quantity from which the principle of <em>least action</em> takes its name. (Tr.)
            </p>

            <p class="marks" id="marks41" epub:type="rearnote"><span class="num-note-rw" id="rw-num-note-48"><a href="#rw-ref-note-48">48</a></span><i>A.&#160;Einstein</i>, Ann.&#160;d.&#160;Phys.&#160;<b>22</b>, p.&#160;180, 1907. Compare also <i>M.&#160;Born</i> und <i>Th.&#160;von&#160;K&#225;rman</i>, Phys.&#160;Zeitschr.&#160;<b>13</b>, p.&#160;297, 1912.
            </p>

         </div></section>
	</div>
    <script src="../../acme.js"></script></body></html>
