<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <title>Psalms</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/kje-bible-books.css" type="text/css"/>
<link rel="prev" href="s023-Chapter-018.xhtml"/>
<link rel="next" href="s025-Chapter-020.xhtml"/>
  </head>
  <body>
	<div class="galley-rw">
		<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw exclude-auto-rw page-open-auto-rw" id="Chapter19" epub:type="bodymatter chapter"><div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block20"><h1 id="psalms">Psalms</h1></div><h2 id="psalms-1">Psalm 1</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-1-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful.
         </p><p id="psalms-1-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> But his delight is in the law of the LORD; and in his law doth he meditate day and night.
         </p><p id="psalms-1-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season; his leaf also shall not wither; and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper.
         </p><p id="psalms-1-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> The ungodly are not so: but are like the chaff which the wind driveth away.
         </p><p id="psalms-1-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Therefore the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous.
         </p><p id="psalms-1-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> For the LORD knoweth the way of the righteous: but the way of the ungodly shall perish.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-2">Psalm 2</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-2-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Why do the heathen rage, and the people imagine a vain thing?
         </p><p id="psalms-2-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together, against the LORD, and against his anointed, saying,
         </p><p id="psalms-2-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Let us break their bands asunder, and cast away their cords from us.
         </p><p id="psalms-2-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh: the LORD shall have them in derision.
         </p><p id="psalms-2-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Then shall he speak unto them in his wrath, and vex them in his sore displeasure.
         </p><p id="psalms-2-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Yet have I set my king upon my holy hill of Zion.
         </p><p id="psalms-2-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> I will declare the decree: the LORD hath said unto me, Thou art my Son; this day have I begotten thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-2-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Ask of me, and I shall give thee the heathen for thine inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession.
         </p><p id="psalms-2-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron; thou shalt dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel.
         </p><p id="psalms-2-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Be wise now therefore, O ye kings: be instructed, ye judges of the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-2-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Serve the LORD with fear, and rejoice with trembling.
         </p><p id="psalms-2-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and ye perish from the way, when his wrath is kindled but a little. Blessed are all they that put their trust in him.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-3">Psalm 3</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-3-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Lord, how are they increased that trouble me! many are they that rise up against me.
         </p><p id="psalms-3-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Many there be which say of my soul, There is no help for him in God. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-3-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> But thou, O LORD, art a shield for me; my glory, and the lifter up of mine head.
         </p><p id="psalms-3-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> I cried unto the LORD with my voice, and he heard me out of his holy hill. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-3-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> I laid me down and slept; I awaked; for the LORD sustained me.
         </p><p id="psalms-3-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> I will not be afraid of ten thousands of people, that have set themselves against me round about.
         </p><p id="psalms-3-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Arise, O LORD; save me, O my God: for thou hast smitten all mine enemies upon the cheek bone; thou hast broken the teeth of the ungodly.
         </p><p id="psalms-3-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Salvation belongeth unto the LORD: thy blessing is upon thy people. Selah.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-4">Psalm 4</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-4-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Hear me when I call, O God of my righteousness: thou hast enlarged me when I was in distress; have mercy upon me, and hear my prayer.
         </p><p id="psalms-4-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> O ye sons of men, how long will ye turn my glory into shame? how long will ye love vanity, and seek after leasing? Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-4-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> But know that the LORD hath set apart him that is godly for himself: the LORD will hear when I call unto him.
         </p><p id="psalms-4-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Stand in awe, and sin not: commune with your own heart upon your bed, and be still. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-4-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Offer the sacrifices of righteousness, and put your trust in the LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-4-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> There be many that say, Who will shew us any good? LORD, lift thou up the light of thy countenance upon us.
         </p><p id="psalms-4-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Thou hast put gladness in my heart, more than in the time that their corn and their wine increased.
         </p><p id="psalms-4-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> I will both lay me down in peace, and sleep: for thou, LORD, only makest me dwell in safety.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-5">Psalm 5</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-5-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Give ear to my words, O LORD, consider my meditation.
         </p><p id="psalms-5-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Hearken unto the voice of my cry, my King, and my God: for unto thee will I pray.
         </p><p id="psalms-5-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> My voice shalt thou hear in the morning, O LORD; in the morning will I direct my prayer unto thee, and will look up.
         </p><p id="psalms-5-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> For thou art not a God that hath pleasure in wickedness: neither shall evil dwell with thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-5-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> The foolish shall not stand in thy sight: thou hatest all workers of iniquity.
         </p><p id="psalms-5-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Thou shalt destroy them that speak leasing: the LORD will abhor the bloody and deceitful man.
         </p><p id="psalms-5-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> But as for me, I will come into thy house in the multitude of thy mercy: and in thy fear will I worship toward thy holy temple.
         </p><p id="psalms-5-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Lead me, O LORD, in thy righteousness because of mine enemies; make thy way straight before my face.
         </p><p id="psalms-5-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> For there is no faithfulness in their mouth; their inward part is very wickedness; their throat is an open sepulchre; they flatter with their tongue.
         </p><p id="psalms-5-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Destroy thou them, O God; let them fall by their own counsels; cast them out in the multitude of their transgressions; for they have rebelled against thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-5-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> But let all those that put their trust in thee rejoice: let them ever shout for joy, because thou defendest them: let them also that love thy name be joyful in thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-5-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> For thou, LORD, wilt bless the righteous; with favour wilt thou compass him as with a shield.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-6">Psalm 6</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-6-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> O LORD, rebuke me not in thine anger, neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure.
         </p><p id="psalms-6-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Have mercy upon me, O LORD; for I am weak: O LORD, heal me; for my bones are vexed.
         </p><p id="psalms-6-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> My soul is also sore vexed: but thou, O LORD, how long?
         </p><p id="psalms-6-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Return, O LORD, deliver my soul: oh save me for thy mercies' sake.
         </p><p id="psalms-6-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> For in death there is no remembrance of thee: in the grave who shall give thee thanks?
         </p><p id="psalms-6-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> I am weary with my groaning; all the night make I my bed to swim; I water my couch with my tears.
         </p><p id="psalms-6-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Mine eye is consumed because of grief; it waxeth old because of all mine enemies.
         </p><p id="psalms-6-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity; for the LORD hath heard the voice of my weeping.
         </p><p id="psalms-6-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> The LORD hath heard my supplication; the LORD will receive my prayer.
         </p><p id="psalms-6-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Let all mine enemies be ashamed and sore vexed: let them return and be ashamed suddenly.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-7">Psalm 7</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-7-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> O LORD my God, in thee do I put my trust: save me from all them that persecute me, and deliver me:
         </p><p id="psalms-7-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Lest he tear my soul like a lion, rending it in pieces, while there is none to deliver.
         </p><p id="psalms-7-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> O LORD my God, If I have done this; if there be iniquity in my hands;
         </p><p id="psalms-7-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> If I have rewarded evil unto him that was at peace with me; (yea, I have delivered him that without cause is mine enemy:)
         </p><p id="psalms-7-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Let the enemy persecute my soul, and take it; yea, let him tread down my life upon the earth, and lay mine honour in the dust. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-7-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Arise, O LORD, in thine anger, lift up thyself because of the rage of mine enemies: and awake for me to the judgment that thou hast commanded.
         </p><p id="psalms-7-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> So shall the congregation of the people compass thee about: for their sakes therefore return thou on high.
         </p><p id="psalms-7-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> The LORD shall judge the people: judge me, O LORD, according to my righteousness, and according to mine integrity that is in me.
         </p><p id="psalms-7-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Oh let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end; but establish the just: for the righteous God trieth the hearts and reins.
         </p><p id="psalms-7-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> My defence is of God, which saveth the upright in heart.
         </p><p id="psalms-7-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> God judgeth the righteous, and God is angry with the wicked every day.
         </p><p id="psalms-7-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> If he turn not, he will whet his sword; he hath bent his bow, and made it ready.
         </p><p id="psalms-7-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> He hath also prepared for him the instruments of death; he ordaineth his arrows against the persecutors.
         </p><p id="psalms-7-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Behold, he travaileth with iniquity, and hath conceived mischief, and brought forth falsehood.
         </p><p id="psalms-7-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> He made a pit, and digged it, and is fallen into the ditch which he made.
         </p><p id="psalms-7-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> His mischief shall return upon his own head, and his violent dealing shall come down upon his own pate.
         </p><p id="psalms-7-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> I will praise the LORD according to his righteousness: and will sing praise to the name of the LORD most high.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-8">Psalm 8</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-8-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> O LORD, our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth! who hast set thy glory above the heavens.
         </p><p id="psalms-8-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings hast thou ordained strength because of thine enemies, that thou mightest still the enemy and the avenger.
         </p><p id="psalms-8-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars, which thou hast ordained;
         </p><p id="psalms-8-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> What is man, that thou art mindful of him? and the son of man, that thou visitest him?
         </p><p id="psalms-8-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honour.
         </p><p id="psalms-8-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Thou madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands; thou hast put all things under his feet:
         </p><p id="psalms-8-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> All sheep and oxen, yea, and the beasts of the field;
         </p><p id="psalms-8-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> The fowl of the air, and the fish of the sea, and whatsoever passeth through the paths of the seas.
         </p><p id="psalms-8-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> O LORD our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth!
         </p><h2 id="psalms-9">Psalm 9</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-9-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> I will praise thee, O LORD, with my whole heart; I will shew forth all thy marvellous works.
         </p><p id="psalms-9-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> I will be glad and rejoice in thee: I will sing praise to thy name, O thou most High.
         </p><p id="psalms-9-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> When mine enemies are turned back, they shall fall and perish at thy presence.
         </p><p id="psalms-9-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> For thou hast maintained my right and my cause; thou satest in the throne judging right.
         </p><p id="psalms-9-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Thou hast rebuked the heathen, thou hast destroyed the wicked, thou hast put out their name for ever and ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-9-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> O thou enemy, destructions are come to a perpetual end: and thou hast destroyed cities; their memorial is perished with them.
         </p><p id="psalms-9-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> But the LORD shall endure for ever: he hath prepared his throne for judgment.
         </p><p id="psalms-9-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> And he shall judge the world in righteousness, he shall minister judgment to the people in uprightness.
         </p><p id="psalms-9-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> The LORD also will be a refuge for the oppressed, a refuge in times of trouble.
         </p><p id="psalms-9-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> And they that know thy name will put their trust in thee: for thou, LORD, hast not forsaken them that seek thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-9-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Sing praises to the LORD, which dwelleth in Zion: declare among the people his doings.
         </p><p id="psalms-9-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> When he maketh inquisition for blood, he remembereth them: he forgetteth not the cry of the humble.
         </p><p id="psalms-9-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Have mercy upon me, O LORD; consider my trouble which I suffer of them that hate me, thou that liftest me up from the gates of death:
         </p><p id="psalms-9-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> That I may shew forth all thy praise in the gates of the daughter of Zion: I will rejoice in thy salvation.
         </p><p id="psalms-9-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> The heathen are sunk down in the pit that they made: in the net which they hid is their own foot taken.
         </p><p id="psalms-9-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> The LORD is known by the judgment which he executeth: the wicked is snared in the work of his own hands. Higgaion. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-9-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> The wicked shall be turned into hell, and all the nations that forget God.
         </p><p id="psalms-9-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> For the needy shall not alway be forgotten: the expectation of the poor shall not perish for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-9-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Arise, O LORD; let not man prevail: let the heathen be judged in thy sight.
         </p><p id="psalms-9-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Put them in fear, O LORD: that the nations may know themselves to be but men. Selah.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-10">Psalm 10</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-10-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Why standest thou afar off, O LORD? why hidest thou thyself in times of trouble?
         </p><p id="psalms-10-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> The wicked in his pride doth persecute the poor: let them be taken in the devices that they have imagined.
         </p><p id="psalms-10-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> For the wicked boasteth of his heart's desire, and blesseth the covetous, whom the LORD abhorreth.
         </p><p id="psalms-10-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> The wicked, through the pride of his countenance, will not seek after God: God is not in all his thoughts.
         </p><p id="psalms-10-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> His ways are always grievous; thy judgments are far above out of his sight: as for all his enemies, he puffeth at them.
         </p><p id="psalms-10-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> He hath said in his heart, I shall not be moved: for I shall never be in adversity.
         </p><p id="psalms-10-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> His mouth is full of cursing and deceit and fraud: under his tongue is mischief and vanity.
         </p><p id="psalms-10-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> He sitteth in the lurking places of the villages: in the secret places doth he murder the innocent: his eyes are privily set against the poor.
         </p><p id="psalms-10-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> He lieth in wait secretly as a lion in his den: he lieth in wait to catch the poor: he doth catch the poor, when he draweth him into his net.
         </p><p id="psalms-10-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> He croucheth, and humbleth himself, that the poor may fall by his strong ones.
         </p><p id="psalms-10-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> He hath said in his heart, God hath forgotten: he hideth his face; he will never see it.
         </p><p id="psalms-10-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Arise, O LORD; O God, lift up thine hand: forget not the humble.
         </p><p id="psalms-10-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Wherefore doth the wicked contemn God? he hath said in his heart, Thou wilt not require it.
         </p><p id="psalms-10-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Thou hast seen it; for thou beholdest mischief and spite, to requite it with thy hand: the poor committeth himself unto thee; thou art the helper of the fatherless.
         </p><p id="psalms-10-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Break thou the arm of the wicked and the evil man: seek out his wickedness till thou find none.
         </p><p id="psalms-10-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> The LORD is King for ever and ever: the heathen are perished out of his land.
         </p><p id="psalms-10-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> LORD, thou hast heard the desire of the humble: thou wilt prepare their heart, thou wilt cause thine ear to hear:
         </p><p id="psalms-10-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> To judge the fatherless and the oppressed, that the man of the earth may no more oppress.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-11">Psalm 11</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-11-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> In the LORD put I my trust: how say ye to my soul, Flee as a bird to your mountain?
         </p><p id="psalms-11-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> For, lo, the wicked bend their bow, they make ready their arrow upon the string, that they may privily shoot at the upright in heart.
         </p><p id="psalms-11-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> If the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do?
         </p><p id="psalms-11-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> The LORD is in his holy temple, the LORD's throne is in heaven: his eyes behold, his eyelids try, the children of men.
         </p><p id="psalms-11-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> The LORD trieth the righteous: but the wicked and him that loveth violence his soul hateth.
         </p><p id="psalms-11-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Upon the wicked he shall rain snares, fire and brimstone, and an horrible tempest: this shall be the portion of their cup.
         </p><p id="psalms-11-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> For the righteous LORD loveth righteousness; his countenance doth behold the upright.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-12">Psalm 12</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-12-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Help, LORD; for the godly man ceaseth; for the faithful fail from among the children of men.
         </p><p id="psalms-12-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> They speak vanity every one with his neighbour: with flattering lips and with a double heart do they speak.
         </p><p id="psalms-12-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> The LORD shall cut off all flattering lips, and the tongue that speaketh proud things:
         </p><p id="psalms-12-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Who have said, With our tongue will we prevail; our lips are our own: who is lord over us?
         </p><p id="psalms-12-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy, now will I arise, saith the LORD; I will set him in safety from him that puffeth at him.
         </p><p id="psalms-12-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> The words of the LORD are pure words: as silver tried in a furnace of earth, purified seven times.
         </p><p id="psalms-12-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Thou shalt keep them, O LORD, thou shalt preserve them from this generation for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-12-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> The wicked walk on every side, when the vilest men are exalted.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-13">Psalm 13</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-13-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> How long wilt thou forget me, O LORD? for ever? how long wilt thou hide thy face from me?
         </p><p id="psalms-13-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> How long shall I take counsel in my soul, having sorrow in my heart daily? how long shall mine enemy be exalted over me?
         </p><p id="psalms-13-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Consider and hear me, O LORD my God: lighten mine eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death;
         </p><p id="psalms-13-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Lest mine enemy say, I have prevailed against him; and those that trouble me rejoice when I am moved.
         </p><p id="psalms-13-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> But I have trusted in thy mercy; my heart shall rejoice in thy salvation.
         </p><p id="psalms-13-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> I will sing unto the LORD, because he hath dealt bountifully with me.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-14">Psalm 14</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-14-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. They are corrupt, they have done abominable works, there is none that doeth good.
         </p><p id="psalms-14-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> The LORD looked down from heaven upon the children of men, to see if there were any that did understand, and seek God.
         </p><p id="psalms-14-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> They are all gone aside, they are all together become filthy: there is none that doeth good, no, not one.
         </p><p id="psalms-14-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Have all the workers of iniquity no knowledge? who eat up my people as they eat bread, and call not upon the LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-14-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> There were they in great fear: for God is in the generation of the righteous.
         </p><p id="psalms-14-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Ye have shamed the counsel of the poor, because the LORD is his refuge.
         </p><p id="psalms-14-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Oh that the salvation of Israel were come out of Zion! when the LORD bringeth back the captivity of his people, Jacob shall rejoice, and Israel shall be glad.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-15">Psalm 15</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-15-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? who shall dwell in thy holy hill?
         </p><p id="psalms-15-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> He that walketh uprightly, and worketh righteousness, and speaketh the truth in his heart.
         </p><p id="psalms-15-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> He that backbiteth not with his tongue, nor doeth evil to his neighbour, nor taketh up a reproach against his neighbour.
         </p><p id="psalms-15-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> In whose eyes a vile person is contemned; but he honoureth them that fear the LORD. He that sweareth to his own hurt, and changeth not.
         </p><p id="psalms-15-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> He that putteth not out his money to usury, nor taketh reward against the innocent. He that doeth these things shall never be moved.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-16">Psalm 16</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-16-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Preserve me, O God: for in thee do I put my trust.
         </p><p id="psalms-16-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> O my soul, thou hast said unto the LORD, Thou art my Lord: my goodness extendeth not to thee;
         </p><p id="psalms-16-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> But to the saints that are in the earth, and to the excellent, in whom is all my delight.
         </p><p id="psalms-16-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Their sorrows shall be multiplied that hasten after another god: their drink offerings of blood will I not offer, nor take up their names into my lips.
         </p><p id="psalms-16-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> The LORD is the portion of mine inheritance and of my cup: thou maintainest my lot.
         </p><p id="psalms-16-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places; yea, I have a goodly heritage.
         </p><p id="psalms-16-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> I will bless the LORD, who hath given me counsel: my reins also instruct me in the night seasons.
         </p><p id="psalms-16-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> I have set the LORD always before me: because he is at my right hand, I shall not be moved.
         </p><p id="psalms-16-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Therefore my heart is glad, and my glory rejoiceth: my flesh also shall rest in hope.
         </p><p id="psalms-16-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> For thou wilt not leave my soul in hell; neither wilt thou suffer thine Holy One to see corruption.
         </p><p id="psalms-16-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Thou wilt shew me the path of life: in thy presence is fulness of joy; at thy right hand there are pleasures for evermore.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-17">Psalm 17</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-17-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Hear the right, O LORD, attend unto my cry, give ear unto my prayer, that goeth not out of feigned lips.
         </p><p id="psalms-17-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Let my sentence come forth from thy presence; let thine eyes behold the things that are equal.
         </p><p id="psalms-17-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Thou hast proved mine heart; thou hast visited me in the night; thou hast tried me, and shalt find nothing; I am purposed that my mouth shall not transgress.
         </p><p id="psalms-17-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Concerning the works of men, by the word of thy lips I have kept me from the paths of the destroyer.
         </p><p id="psalms-17-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Hold up my goings in thy paths, that my footsteps slip not.
         </p><p id="psalms-17-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> I have called upon thee, for thou wilt hear me, O God: incline thine ear unto me, and hear my speech.
         </p><p id="psalms-17-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Shew thy marvellous lovingkindness, O thou that savest by thy right hand them which put their trust in thee from those that rise up against them.
         </p><p id="psalms-17-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Keep me as the apple of the eye, hide me under the shadow of thy wings,
         </p><p id="psalms-17-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> From the wicked that oppress me, from my deadly enemies, who compass me about.
         </p><p id="psalms-17-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> They are inclosed in their own fat: with their mouth they speak proudly.
         </p><p id="psalms-17-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> They have now compassed us in our steps: they have set their eyes bowing down to the earth;
         </p><p id="psalms-17-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Like as a lion that is greedy of his prey, and as it were a young lion lurking in secret places.
         </p><p id="psalms-17-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Arise, O LORD, disappoint him, cast him down: deliver my soul from the wicked, which is thy sword:
         </p><p id="psalms-17-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> From men which are thy hand, O LORD, from men of the world, which have their portion in this life, and whose belly thou fillest with thy hid treasure: they are full of children, and leave the rest of their substance to their babes.
         </p><p id="psalms-17-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> As for me, I will behold thy face in righteousness: I shall be satisfied, when I awake, with thy likeness.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-18">Psalm 18</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-18-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> I will love thee, O LORD, my strength.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> The LORD is my rock, and my fortress, and my deliverer; my God, my strength, in whom I will trust; my buckler, and the horn of my salvation, and my high tower.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> I will call upon the LORD, who is worthy to be praised: so shall I be saved from mine enemies.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> The sorrows of death compassed me, and the floods of ungodly men made me afraid.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> The sorrows of hell compassed me about: the snares of death prevented me.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> In my distress I called upon the LORD, and cried unto my God: he heard my voice out of his temple, and my cry came before him, even into his ears.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Then the earth shook and trembled; the foundations also of the hills moved and were shaken, because he was wroth.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> There went up a smoke out of his nostrils, and fire out of his mouth devoured: coals were kindled by it.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> He bowed the heavens also, and came down: and darkness was under his feet.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> And he rode upon a cherub, and did fly: yea, he did fly upon the wings of the wind.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> He made darkness his secret place; his pavilion round about him were dark waters and thick clouds of the skies.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> At the brightness that was before him his thick clouds passed, hail stones and coals of fire.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> The LORD also thundered in the heavens, and the Highest gave his voice; hail stones and coals of fire.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Yea, he sent out his arrows, and scattered them; and he shot out lightnings, and discomfited them.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Then the channels of waters were seen, and the foundations of the world were discovered at thy rebuke, O LORD, at the blast of the breath of thy nostrils.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> He sent from above, he took me, he drew me out of many waters.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> He delivered me from my strong enemy, and from them which hated me: for they were too strong for me.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> They prevented me in the day of my calamity: but the LORD was my stay.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> He brought me forth also into a large place; he delivered me, because he delighted in me.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> The LORD rewarded me according to my righteousness; according to the cleanness of my hands hath he recompensed me.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> For I have kept the ways of the LORD, and have not wickedly departed from my God.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> For all his judgments were before me, and I did not put away his statutes from me.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> I was also upright before him, and I kept myself from mine iniquity.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> Therefore hath the LORD recompensed me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands in his eyesight.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> With the merciful thou wilt shew thyself merciful; with an upright man thou wilt shew thyself upright;
         </p><p id="psalms-18-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> With the pure thou wilt shew thyself pure; and with the froward thou wilt shew thyself froward.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> For thou wilt save the afflicted people; but wilt bring down high looks.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> For thou wilt light my candle: the LORD my God will enlighten my darkness.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> For by thee I have run through a troop; and by my God have I leaped over a wall.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> As for God, his way is perfect: the word of the LORD is tried: he is a buckler to all those that trust in him.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-31"><span class="num-verse-rw">31</span> For who is God save the LORD? or who is a rock save our God?
         </p><p id="psalms-18-32"><span class="num-verse-rw">32</span> It is God that girdeth me with strength, and maketh my way perfect.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-33"><span class="num-verse-rw">33</span> He maketh my feet like hinds' feet, and setteth me upon my high places.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-34"><span class="num-verse-rw">34</span> He teacheth my hands to war, so that a bow of steel is broken by mine arms.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-35"><span class="num-verse-rw">35</span> Thou hast also given me the shield of thy salvation: and thy right hand hath holden me up, and thy gentleness hath made me great.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-36"><span class="num-verse-rw">36</span> Thou hast enlarged my steps under me, that my feet did not slip.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-37"><span class="num-verse-rw">37</span> I have pursued mine enemies, and overtaken them: neither did I turn again till they were consumed.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-38"><span class="num-verse-rw">38</span> I have wounded them that they were not able to rise: they are fallen under my feet.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-39"><span class="num-verse-rw">39</span> For thou hast girded me with strength unto the battle: thou hast subdued under me those that rose up against me.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-40"><span class="num-verse-rw">40</span> Thou hast also given me the necks of mine enemies; that I might destroy them that hate me.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-41"><span class="num-verse-rw">41</span> They cried, but there was none to save them: even unto the LORD, but he answered them not.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-42"><span class="num-verse-rw">42</span> Then did I beat them small as the dust before the wind: I did cast them out as the dirt in the streets.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-43"><span class="num-verse-rw">43</span> Thou hast delivered me from the strivings of the people; and thou hast made me the head of the heathen: a people whom I have not known shall serve me.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-44"><span class="num-verse-rw">44</span> As soon as they hear of me, they shall obey me: the strangers shall submit themselves unto me.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-45"><span class="num-verse-rw">45</span> The strangers shall fade away, and be afraid out of their close places.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-46"><span class="num-verse-rw">46</span> The LORD liveth; and blessed be my rock; and let the God of my salvation be exalted.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-47"><span class="num-verse-rw">47</span> It is God that avengeth me, and subdueth the people under me.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-48"><span class="num-verse-rw">48</span> He delivereth me from mine enemies: yea, thou liftest me up above those that rise up against me: thou hast delivered me from the violent man.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-49"><span class="num-verse-rw">49</span> Therefore will I give thanks unto thee, O LORD, among the heathen, and sing praises unto thy name.
         </p><p id="psalms-18-50"><span class="num-verse-rw">50</span> Great deliverance giveth he to his king; and sheweth mercy to his anointed, to David, and to his seed for evermore.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-19">Psalm 19</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-19-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament sheweth his handywork.
         </p><p id="psalms-19-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night sheweth knowledge.
         </p><p id="psalms-19-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> There is no speech nor language, where their voice is not heard.
         </p><p id="psalms-19-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Their line is gone out through all the earth, and their words to the end of the world. In them hath he set a tabernacle for the sun,
         </p><p id="psalms-19-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Which is as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, and rejoiceth as a strong man to run a race.
         </p><p id="psalms-19-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> His going forth is from the end of the heaven, and his circuit unto the ends of it: and there is nothing hid from the heat thereof.
         </p><p id="psalms-19-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> The law of the LORD is perfect, converting the soul: the testimony of the LORD is sure, making wise the simple.
         </p><p id="psalms-19-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> The statutes of the LORD are right, rejoicing the heart: the commandment of the LORD is pure, enlightening the eyes.
         </p><p id="psalms-19-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> The fear of the LORD is clean, enduring for ever: the judgments of the LORD are true and righteous altogether.
         </p><p id="psalms-19-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold: sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb.
         </p><p id="psalms-19-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Moreover by them is thy servant warned: and in keeping of them there is great reward.
         </p><p id="psalms-19-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Who can understand his errors? cleanse thou me from secret faults.
         </p><p id="psalms-19-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins; let them not have dominion over me: then shall I be upright, and I shall be innocent from the great transgression.
         </p><p id="psalms-19-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart, be acceptable in thy sight, O LORD, my strength, and my redeemer.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-20">Psalm 20</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-20-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> The LORD hear thee in the day of trouble; the name of the God of Jacob defend thee;
         </p><p id="psalms-20-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Send thee help from the sanctuary, and strengthen thee out of Zion;
         </p><p id="psalms-20-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Remember all thy offerings, and accept thy burnt sacrifice; Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-20-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Grant thee according to thine own heart, and fulfil all thy counsel.
         </p><p id="psalms-20-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> We will rejoice in thy salvation, and in the name of our God we will set up our banners: the LORD fulfil all thy petitions.
         </p><p id="psalms-20-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Now know I that the LORD saveth his anointed; he will hear him from his holy heaven with the saving strength of his right hand.
         </p><p id="psalms-20-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Some trust in chariots, and some in horses: but we will remember the name of the LORD our God.
         </p><p id="psalms-20-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> They are brought down and fallen: but we are risen, and stand upright.
         </p><p id="psalms-20-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Save, LORD: let the king hear us when we call.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-21">Psalm 21</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-21-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> The king shall joy in thy strength, O LORD; and in thy salvation how greatly shall he rejoice!
         </p><p id="psalms-21-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Thou hast given him his heart's desire, and hast not withholden the request of his lips. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-21-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> For thou preventest him with the blessings of goodness: thou settest a crown of pure gold on his head.
         </p><p id="psalms-21-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> He asked life of thee, and thou gavest it him, even length of days for ever and ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-21-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> His glory is great in thy salvation: honour and majesty hast thou laid upon him.
         </p><p id="psalms-21-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> For thou hast made him most blessed for ever: thou hast made him exceeding glad with thy countenance.
         </p><p id="psalms-21-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> For the king trusteth in the LORD, and through the mercy of the most High he shall not be moved.
         </p><p id="psalms-21-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Thine hand shall find out all thine enemies: thy right hand shall find out those that hate thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-21-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Thou shalt make them as a fiery oven in the time of thine anger: the LORD shall swallow them up in his wrath, and the fire shall devour them.
         </p><p id="psalms-21-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Their fruit shalt thou destroy from the earth, and their seed from among the children of men.
         </p><p id="psalms-21-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> For they intended evil against thee: they imagined a mischievous device, which they are not able to perform.
         </p><p id="psalms-21-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Therefore shalt thou make them turn their back, when thou shalt make ready thine arrows upon thy strings against the face of them.
         </p><p id="psalms-21-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Be thou exalted, LORD, in thine own strength: so will we sing and praise thy power.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-22">Psalm 22</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-22-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? why art thou so far from helping me, and from the words of my roaring?
         </p><p id="psalms-22-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> O my God, I cry in the day time, but thou hearest not; and in the night season, and am not silent.
         </p><p id="psalms-22-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> But thou art holy, O thou that inhabitest the praises of Israel.
         </p><p id="psalms-22-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Our fathers trusted in thee: they trusted, and thou didst deliver them.
         </p><p id="psalms-22-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> They cried unto thee, and were delivered: they trusted in thee, and were not confounded.
         </p><p id="psalms-22-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> But I am a worm, and no man; a reproach of men, and despised of the people.
         </p><p id="psalms-22-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> All they that see me laugh me to scorn: they shoot out the lip, they shake the head, saying,
         </p><p id="psalms-22-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> He trusted on the LORD that he would deliver him: let him deliver him, seeing he delighted in him.
         </p><p id="psalms-22-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> But thou art he that took me out of the womb: thou didst make me hope when I was upon my mother's breasts.
         </p><p id="psalms-22-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> I was cast upon thee from the womb: thou art my God from my mother's belly.
         </p><p id="psalms-22-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Be not far from me; for trouble is near; for there is none to help.
         </p><p id="psalms-22-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Many bulls have compassed me: strong bulls of Bashan have beset me round.
         </p><p id="psalms-22-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> They gaped upon me with their mouths, as a ravening and a roaring lion.
         </p><p id="psalms-22-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint: my heart is like wax; it is melted in the midst of my bowels.
         </p><p id="psalms-22-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> My strength is dried up like a potsherd; and my tongue cleaveth to my jaws; and thou hast brought me into the dust of death.
         </p><p id="psalms-22-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> For dogs have compassed me: the assembly of the wicked have inclosed me: they pierced my hands and my feet.
         </p><p id="psalms-22-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> I may tell all my bones: they look and stare upon me.
         </p><p id="psalms-22-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> They part my garments among them, and cast lots upon my vesture.
         </p><p id="psalms-22-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> But be not thou far from me, O LORD: O my strength, haste thee to help me.
         </p><p id="psalms-22-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Deliver my soul from the sword; my darling from the power of the dog.
         </p><p id="psalms-22-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> Save me from the lion's mouth: for thou hast heard me from the horns of the unicorns.
         </p><p id="psalms-22-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> I will declare thy name unto my brethren: in the midst of the congregation will I praise thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-22-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> Ye that fear the LORD, praise him; all ye the seed of Jacob, glorify him; and fear him, all ye the seed of Israel.
         </p><p id="psalms-22-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> For he hath not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted; neither hath he hid his face from him; but when he cried unto him, he heard.
         </p><p id="psalms-22-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> My praise shall be of thee in the great congregation: I will pay my vows before them that fear him.
         </p><p id="psalms-22-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> The meek shall eat and be satisfied: they shall praise the LORD that seek him: your heart shall live for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-22-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> All the ends of the world shall remember and turn unto the LORD: and all the kindreds of the nations shall worship before thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-22-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> For the kingdom is the LORD's: and he is the governor among the nations.
         </p><p id="psalms-22-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> All they that be fat upon earth shall eat and worship: all they that go down to the dust shall bow before him: and none can keep alive his own soul.
         </p><p id="psalms-22-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> A seed shall serve him; it shall be accounted to the Lord for a generation.
         </p><p id="psalms-22-31"><span class="num-verse-rw">31</span> They shall come, and shall declare his righteousness unto a people that shall be born, that he hath done this.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-23">Psalm 23</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-23-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> The LORD is my shepherd; I shall not want.
         </p><p id="psalms-23-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> He maketh me to lie down in green pastures: he leadeth me beside the still waters.
         </p><p id="psalms-23-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> He restoreth my soul: he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake.
         </p><p id="psalms-23-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil: for thou art with me; thy rod and thy staff they comfort me.
         </p><p id="psalms-23-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies: thou anointest my head with oil; my cup runneth over.
         </p><p id="psalms-23-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life: and I will dwell in the house of the LORD for ever.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-24">Psalm 24</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-24-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> The earth is the LORD's, and the fulness thereof; the world, and they that dwell therein.
         </p><p id="psalms-24-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> For he hath founded it upon the seas, and established it upon the floods.
         </p><p id="psalms-24-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Who shall ascend into the hill of the LORD? or who shall stand in his holy place?
         </p><p id="psalms-24-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart; who hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully.
         </p><p id="psalms-24-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> He shall receive the blessing from the LORD, and righteousness from the God of his salvation.
         </p><p id="psalms-24-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> This is the generation of them that seek him, that seek thy face, O Jacob. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-24-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Lift up your heads, O ye gates; and be ye lift up, ye everlasting doors; and the King of glory shall come in.
         </p><p id="psalms-24-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Who is this King of glory? The LORD strong and mighty, the LORD mighty in battle.
         </p><p id="psalms-24-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Lift up your heads, O ye gates; even lift them up, ye everlasting doors; and the King of glory shall come in.
         </p><p id="psalms-24-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Who is this King of glory? The LORD of hosts, he is the King of glory. Selah.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-25">Psalm 25</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-25-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Unto thee, O LORD, do I lift up my soul.
         </p><p id="psalms-25-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> O my God, I trust in thee: let me not be ashamed, let not mine enemies triumph over me.
         </p><p id="psalms-25-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Yea, let none that wait on thee be ashamed: let them be ashamed which transgress without cause.
         </p><p id="psalms-25-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Shew me thy ways, O LORD; teach me thy paths.
         </p><p id="psalms-25-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Lead me in thy truth, and teach me: for thou art the God of my salvation; on thee do I wait all the day.
         </p><p id="psalms-25-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Remember, O LORD, thy tender mercies and thy lovingkindnesses; for they have been ever of old.
         </p><p id="psalms-25-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Remember not the sins of my youth, nor my transgressions: according to thy mercy remember thou me for thy goodness' sake, O LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-25-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Good and upright is the LORD: therefore will he teach sinners in the way.
         </p><p id="psalms-25-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> The meek will he guide in judgment: and the meek will he teach his way.
         </p><p id="psalms-25-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> All the paths of the LORD are mercy and truth unto such as keep his covenant and his testimonies.
         </p><p id="psalms-25-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> For thy name's sake, O LORD, pardon mine iniquity; for it is great.
         </p><p id="psalms-25-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> What man is he that feareth the LORD? him shall he teach in the way that he shall choose.
         </p><p id="psalms-25-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> His soul shall dwell at ease; and his seed shall inherit the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-25-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> The secret of the LORD is with them that fear him; and he will shew them his covenant.
         </p><p id="psalms-25-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Mine eyes are ever toward the LORD; for he shall pluck my feet out of the net.
         </p><p id="psalms-25-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Turn thee unto me, and have mercy upon me; for I am desolate and afflicted.
         </p><p id="psalms-25-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> The troubles of my heart are enlarged: O bring thou me out of my distresses.
         </p><p id="psalms-25-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Look upon mine affliction and my pain; and forgive all my sins.
         </p><p id="psalms-25-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Consider mine enemies; for they are many; and they hate me with cruel hatred.
         </p><p id="psalms-25-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> O keep my soul, and deliver me: let me not be ashamed; for I put my trust in thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-25-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> Let integrity and uprightness preserve me; for I wait on thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-25-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> Redeem Israel, O God, out of all his troubles.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-26">Psalm 26</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-26-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Judge me, O LORD; for I have walked in mine integrity: I have trusted also in the LORD; therefore I shall not slide.
         </p><p id="psalms-26-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Examine me, O LORD, and prove me; try my reins and my heart.
         </p><p id="psalms-26-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> For thy lovingkindness is before mine eyes: and I have walked in thy truth.
         </p><p id="psalms-26-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> I have not sat with vain persons, neither will I go in with dissemblers.
         </p><p id="psalms-26-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> I have hated the congregation of evil doers; and will not sit with the wicked.
         </p><p id="psalms-26-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> I will wash mine hands in innocency: so will I compass thine altar, O LORD:
         </p><p id="psalms-26-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> That I may publish with the voice of thanksgiving, and tell of all thy wondrous works.
         </p><p id="psalms-26-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> LORD, I have loved the habitation of thy house, and the place where thine honour dwelleth.
         </p><p id="psalms-26-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Gather not my soul with sinners, nor my life with bloody men:
         </p><p id="psalms-26-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> In whose hands is mischief, and their right hand is full of bribes.
         </p><p id="psalms-26-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> But as for me, I will walk in mine integrity: redeem me, and be merciful unto me.
         </p><p id="psalms-26-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> My foot standeth in an even place: in the congregations will I bless the LORD.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-27">Psalm 27</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-27-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> The LORD is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? the LORD is the strength of my life; of whom shall I be afraid?
         </p><p id="psalms-27-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> When the wicked, even mine enemies and my foes, came upon me to eat up my flesh, they stumbled and fell.
         </p><p id="psalms-27-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Though an host should encamp against me, my heart shall not fear: though war should rise against me, in this will I be confident.
         </p><p id="psalms-27-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> One thing have I desired of the LORD, that will I seek after; that I may dwell in the house of the LORD all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the LORD, and to enquire in his temple.
         </p><p id="psalms-27-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> For in the time of trouble he shall hide me in his pavilion: in the secret of his tabernacle shall he hide me; he shall set me up upon a rock.
         </p><p id="psalms-27-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> And now shall mine head be lifted up above mine enemies round about me: therefore will I offer in his tabernacle sacrifices of joy; I will sing, yea, I will sing praises unto the LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-27-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Hear, O LORD, when I cry with my voice: have mercy also upon me, and answer me.
         </p><p id="psalms-27-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> When thou saidst, Seek ye my face; my heart said unto thee, Thy face, LORD, will I seek.
         </p><p id="psalms-27-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Hide not thy face far from me; put not thy servant away in anger: thou hast been my help; leave me not, neither forsake me, O God of my salvation.
         </p><p id="psalms-27-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> When my father and my mother forsake me, then the LORD will take me up.
         </p><p id="psalms-27-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Teach me thy way, O LORD, and lead me in a plain path, because of mine enemies.
         </p><p id="psalms-27-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Deliver me not over unto the will of mine enemies: for false witnesses are risen up against me, and such as breathe out cruelty.
         </p><p id="psalms-27-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> I had fainted, unless I had believed to see the goodness of the LORD in the land of the living.
         </p><p id="psalms-27-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Wait on the LORD: be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart: wait, I say, on the LORD.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-28">Psalm 28</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-28-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Unto thee will I cry, O LORD my rock; be not silent to me: lest, if thou be silent to me, I become like them that go down into the pit.
         </p><p id="psalms-28-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Hear the voice of my supplications, when I cry unto thee, when I lift up my hands toward thy holy oracle.
         </p><p id="psalms-28-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Draw me not away with the wicked, and with the workers of iniquity, which speak peace to their neighbours, but mischief is in their hearts.
         </p><p id="psalms-28-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Give them according to their deeds, and according to the wickedness of their endeavours: give them after the work of their hands; render to them their desert.
         </p><p id="psalms-28-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Because they regard not the works of the LORD, nor the operation of his hands, he shall destroy them, and not build them up.
         </p><p id="psalms-28-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Blessed be the LORD, because he hath heard the voice of my supplications.
         </p><p id="psalms-28-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> The LORD is my strength and my shield; my heart trusted in him, and I am helped: therefore my heart greatly rejoiceth; and with my song will I praise him.
         </p><p id="psalms-28-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> The LORD is their strength, and he is the saving strength of his anointed.
         </p><p id="psalms-28-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Save thy people, and bless thine inheritance: feed them also, and lift them up for ever.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-29">Psalm 29</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-29-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Give unto the LORD, O ye mighty, give unto the LORD glory and strength.
         </p><p id="psalms-29-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Give unto the LORD the glory due unto his name; worship the LORD in the beauty of holiness.
         </p><p id="psalms-29-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> The voice of the LORD is upon the waters: the God of glory thundereth: the LORD is upon many waters.
         </p><p id="psalms-29-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> The voice of the LORD is powerful; the voice of the LORD is full of majesty.
         </p><p id="psalms-29-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> The voice of the LORD breaketh the cedars; yea, the LORD breaketh the cedars of Lebanon.
         </p><p id="psalms-29-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> He maketh them also to skip like a calf; Lebanon and Sirion like a young unicorn.
         </p><p id="psalms-29-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> The voice of the LORD divideth the flames of fire.
         </p><p id="psalms-29-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> The voice of the LORD shaketh the wilderness; the LORD shaketh the wilderness of Kadesh.
         </p><p id="psalms-29-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> The voice of the LORD maketh the hinds to calve, and discovereth the forests: and in his temple doth every one speak of his glory.
         </p><p id="psalms-29-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> The LORD sitteth upon the flood; yea, the LORD sitteth King for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-29-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> The LORD will give strength unto his people; the LORD will bless his people with peace.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-30">Psalm 30</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-30-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> I will extol thee, O LORD; for thou hast lifted me up, and hast not made my foes to rejoice over me.
         </p><p id="psalms-30-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> O LORD my God, I cried unto thee, and thou hast healed me.
         </p><p id="psalms-30-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> O LORD, thou hast brought up my soul from the grave: thou hast kept me alive, that I should not go down to the pit.
         </p><p id="psalms-30-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Sing unto the LORD, O ye saints of his, and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness.
         </p><p id="psalms-30-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> For his anger endureth but a moment; in his favour is life: weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning.
         </p><p id="psalms-30-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> And in my prosperity I said, I shall never be moved.
         </p><p id="psalms-30-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> LORD, by thy favour thou hast made my mountain to stand strong: thou didst hide thy face, and I was troubled.
         </p><p id="psalms-30-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> I cried to thee, O LORD; and unto the LORD I made supplication.
         </p><p id="psalms-30-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> What profit is there in my blood, when I go down to the pit? Shall the dust praise thee? shall it declare thy truth?
         </p><p id="psalms-30-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Hear, O LORD, and have mercy upon me: LORD, be thou my helper.
         </p><p id="psalms-30-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Thou hast turned for me my mourning into dancing: thou hast put off my sackcloth, and girded me with gladness;
         </p><p id="psalms-30-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> To the end that my glory may sing praise to thee, and not be silent. O LORD my God, I will give thanks unto thee for ever.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-31">Psalm 31</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-31-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> In thee, O LORD, do I put my trust; let me never be ashamed: deliver me in thy righteousness.
         </p><p id="psalms-31-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Bow down thine ear to me; deliver me speedily: be thou my strong rock, for an house of defence to save me.
         </p><p id="psalms-31-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> For thou art my rock and my fortress; therefore for thy name's sake lead me, and guide me.
         </p><p id="psalms-31-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Pull me out of the net that they have laid privily for me: for thou art my strength.
         </p><p id="psalms-31-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Into thine hand I commit my spirit: thou hast redeemed me, O LORD God of truth.
         </p><p id="psalms-31-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> I have hated them that regard lying vanities: but I trust in the LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-31-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> I will be glad and rejoice in thy mercy: for thou hast considered my trouble; thou hast known my soul in adversities;
         </p><p id="psalms-31-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> And hast not shut me up into the hand of the enemy: thou hast set my feet in a large room.
         </p><p id="psalms-31-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Have mercy upon me, O LORD, for I am in trouble: mine eye is consumed with grief, yea, my soul and my belly.
         </p><p id="psalms-31-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> For my life is spent with grief, and my years with sighing: my strength faileth because of mine iniquity, and my bones are consumed.
         </p><p id="psalms-31-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> I was a reproach among all mine enemies, but especially among my neighbours, and a fear to mine acquaintance: they that did see me without fled from me.
         </p><p id="psalms-31-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> I am forgotten as a dead man out of mind: I am like a broken vessel.
         </p><p id="psalms-31-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> For I have heard the slander of many: fear was on every side: while they took counsel together against me, they devised to take away my life.
         </p><p id="psalms-31-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> But I trusted in thee, O LORD: I said, Thou art my God.
         </p><p id="psalms-31-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> My times are in thy hand: deliver me from the hand of mine enemies, and from them that persecute me.
         </p><p id="psalms-31-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Make thy face to shine upon thy servant: save me for thy mercies' sake.
         </p><p id="psalms-31-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Let me not be ashamed, O LORD; for I have called upon thee: let the wicked be ashamed, and let them be silent in the grave.
         </p><p id="psalms-31-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Let the lying lips be put to silence; which speak grievous things proudly and contemptuously against the righteous.
         </p><p id="psalms-31-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Oh how great is thy goodness, which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee; which thou hast wrought for them that trust in thee before the sons of men!
         </p><p id="psalms-31-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Thou shalt hide them in the secret of thy presence from the pride of man: thou shalt keep them secretly in a pavilion from the strife of tongues.
         </p><p id="psalms-31-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> Blessed be the LORD: for he hath shewed me his marvellous kindness in a strong city.
         </p><p id="psalms-31-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> For I said in my haste, I am cut off from before thine eyes: nevertheless thou heardest the voice of my supplications when I cried unto thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-31-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> O love the LORD, all ye his saints: for the LORD preserveth the faithful, and plentifully rewardeth the proud doer.
         </p><p id="psalms-31-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart, all ye that hope in the LORD.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-32">Psalm 32</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-32-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered.
         </p><p id="psalms-32-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Blessed is the man unto whom the LORD imputeth not iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no guile.
         </p><p id="psalms-32-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> When I kept silence, my bones waxed old through my roaring all the day long.
         </p><p id="psalms-32-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me: my moisture is turned into the drought of summer. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-32-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> I acknowledge my sin unto thee, and mine iniquity have I not hid. I said, I will confess my transgressions unto the LORD; and thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-32-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> For this shall every one that is godly pray unto thee in a time when thou mayest be found: surely in the floods of great waters they shall not come nigh unto him.
         </p><p id="psalms-32-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Thou art my hiding place; thou shalt preserve me from trouble; thou shalt compass me about with songs of deliverance. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-32-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> I will instruct thee and teach thee in the way which thou shalt go: I will guide thee with mine eye.
         </p><p id="psalms-32-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Be ye not as the horse, or as the mule, which have no understanding: whose mouth must be held in with bit and bridle, lest they come near unto thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-32-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Many sorrows shall be to the wicked: but he that trusteth in the LORD, mercy shall compass him about.
         </p><p id="psalms-32-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Be glad in the LORD, and rejoice, ye righteous: and shout for joy, all ye that are upright in heart.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-33">Psalm 33</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-33-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Rejoice in the LORD, O ye righteous: for praise is comely for the upright.
         </p><p id="psalms-33-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Praise the LORD with harp: sing unto him with the psaltery and an instrument of ten strings.
         </p><p id="psalms-33-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Sing unto him a new song; play skilfully with a loud noise.
         </p><p id="psalms-33-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> For the word of the LORD is right; and all his works are done in truth.
         </p><p id="psalms-33-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> He loveth righteousness and judgment: the earth is full of the goodness of the LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-33-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> By the word of the LORD were the heavens made; and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth.
         </p><p id="psalms-33-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> He gathereth the waters of the sea together as an heap: he layeth up the depth in storehouses.
         </p><p id="psalms-33-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Let all the earth fear the LORD: let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him.
         </p><p id="psalms-33-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> For he spake, and it was done; he commanded, and it stood fast.
         </p><p id="psalms-33-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> The LORD bringeth the counsel of the heathen to nought: he maketh the devices of the people of none effect.
         </p><p id="psalms-33-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> The counsel of the LORD standeth for ever, the thoughts of his heart to all generations.
         </p><p id="psalms-33-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Blessed is the nation whose God is the LORD; and the people whom he hath chosen for his own inheritance.
         </p><p id="psalms-33-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> The LORD looketh from heaven; he beholdeth all the sons of men.
         </p><p id="psalms-33-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> From the place of his habitation he looketh upon all the inhabitants of the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-33-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> He fashioneth their hearts alike; he considereth all their works.
         </p><p id="psalms-33-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> There is no king saved by the multitude of an host: a mighty man is not delivered by much strength.
         </p><p id="psalms-33-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> An horse is a vain thing for safety: neither shall he deliver any by his great strength.
         </p><p id="psalms-33-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Behold, the eye of the LORD is upon them that fear him, upon them that hope in his mercy;
         </p><p id="psalms-33-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> To deliver their soul from death, and to keep them alive in famine.
         </p><p id="psalms-33-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Our soul waiteth for the LORD: he is our help and our shield.
         </p><p id="psalms-33-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> For our heart shall rejoice in him, because we have trusted in his holy name.
         </p><p id="psalms-33-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> Let thy mercy, O LORD, be upon us, according as we hope in thee.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-34">Psalm 34</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-34-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> I will bless the LORD at all times: his praise shall continually be in my mouth.
         </p><p id="psalms-34-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> My soul shall make her boast in the LORD: the humble shall hear thereof, and be glad.
         </p><p id="psalms-34-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> O magnify the LORD with me, and let us exalt his name together.
         </p><p id="psalms-34-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> I sought the LORD, and he heard me, and delivered me from all my fears.
         </p><p id="psalms-34-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> They looked unto him, and were lightened: and their faces were not ashamed.
         </p><p id="psalms-34-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> This poor man cried, and the LORD heard him, and saved him out of all his troubles.
         </p><p id="psalms-34-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> The angel of the LORD encampeth round about them that fear him, and delivereth them.
         </p><p id="psalms-34-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> O taste and see that the LORD is good: blessed is the man that trusteth in him.
         </p><p id="psalms-34-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> O fear the LORD, ye his saints: for there is no want to them that fear him.
         </p><p id="psalms-34-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> The young lions do lack, and suffer hunger: but they that seek the LORD shall not want any good thing.
         </p><p id="psalms-34-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Come, ye children, hearken unto me: I will teach you the fear of the LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-34-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> What man is he that desireth life, and loveth many days, that he may see good?
         </p><p id="psalms-34-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Keep thy tongue from evil, and thy lips from speaking guile.
         </p><p id="psalms-34-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Depart from evil, and do good; seek peace, and pursue it.
         </p><p id="psalms-34-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> The eyes of the LORD are upon the righteous, and his ears are open unto their cry.
         </p><p id="psalms-34-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> The face of the LORD is against them that do evil, to cut off the remembrance of them from the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-34-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> The righteous cry, and the LORD heareth, and delivereth them out of all their troubles.
         </p><p id="psalms-34-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> The LORD is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart; and saveth such as be of a contrite spirit.
         </p><p id="psalms-34-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Many are the afflictions of the righteous: but the LORD delivereth him out of them all.
         </p><p id="psalms-34-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> He keepeth all his bones: not one of them is broken.
         </p><p id="psalms-34-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> Evil shall slay the wicked: and they that hate the righteous shall be desolate.
         </p><p id="psalms-34-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> The LORD redeemeth the soul of his servants: and none of them that trust in him shall be desolate.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-35">Psalm 35</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-35-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Plead my cause, O LORD, with them that strive with me: fight against them that fight against me.
         </p><p id="psalms-35-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Take hold of shield and buckler, and stand up for mine help.
         </p><p id="psalms-35-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Draw out also the spear, and stop the way against them that persecute me: say unto my soul, I am thy salvation.
         </p><p id="psalms-35-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Let them be confounded and put to shame that seek after my soul: let them be turned back and brought to confusion that devise my hurt.
         </p><p id="psalms-35-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Let them be as chaff before the wind: and let the angel of the LORD chase them.
         </p><p id="psalms-35-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Let their way be dark and slippery: and let the angel of the LORD persecute them.
         </p><p id="psalms-35-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> For without cause have they hid for me their net in a pit, which without cause they have digged for my soul.
         </p><p id="psalms-35-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Let destruction come upon him at unawares; and let his net that he hath hid catch himself: into that very destruction let him fall.
         </p><p id="psalms-35-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> And my soul shall be joyful in the LORD: it shall rejoice in his salvation.
         </p><p id="psalms-35-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> All my bones shall say, LORD, who is like unto thee, which deliverest the poor from him that is too strong for him, yea, the poor and the needy from him that spoileth him?
         </p><p id="psalms-35-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> False witnesses did rise up; they laid to my charge things that I knew not.
         </p><p id="psalms-35-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> They rewarded me evil for good to the spoiling of my soul.
         </p><p id="psalms-35-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth: I humbled my soul with fasting; and my prayer returned into mine own bosom.
         </p><p id="psalms-35-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> I behaved myself as though he had been my friend or brother: I bowed down heavily, as one that mourneth for his mother.
         </p><p id="psalms-35-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> But in mine adversity they rejoiced, and gathered themselves together: yea, the abjects gathered themselves together against me, and I knew it not; they did tear me, and ceased not:
         </p><p id="psalms-35-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> With hypocritical mockers in feasts, they gnashed upon me with their teeth.
         </p><p id="psalms-35-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Lord, how long wilt thou look on? rescue my soul from their destructions, my darling from the lions.
         </p><p id="psalms-35-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> I will give thee thanks in the great congregation: I will praise thee among much people.
         </p><p id="psalms-35-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Let not them that are mine enemies wrongfully rejoice over me: neither let them wink with the eye that hate me without a cause.
         </p><p id="psalms-35-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> For they speak not peace: but they devise deceitful matters against them that are quiet in the land.
         </p><p id="psalms-35-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> Yea, they opened their mouth wide against me, and said, Aha, aha, our eye hath seen it.
         </p><p id="psalms-35-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> This thou hast seen, O LORD: keep not silence: O Lord, be not far from me.
         </p><p id="psalms-35-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> Stir up thyself, and awake to my judgment, even unto my cause, my God and my Lord.
         </p><p id="psalms-35-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> Judge me, O LORD my God, according to thy righteousness; and let them not rejoice over me.
         </p><p id="psalms-35-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> Let them not say in their hearts, Ah, so would we have it: let them not say, We have swallowed him up.
         </p><p id="psalms-35-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> Let them be ashamed and brought to confusion together that rejoice at mine hurt: let them be clothed with shame and dishonour that magnify themselves against me.
         </p><p id="psalms-35-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> Let them shout for joy, and be glad, that favour my righteous cause: yea, let them say continually, Let the LORD be magnified, which hath pleasure in the prosperity of his servant.
         </p><p id="psalms-35-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> And my tongue shall speak of thy righteousness and of thy praise all the day long.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-36">Psalm 36</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-36-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> The transgression of the wicked saith within my heart, that there is no fear of God before his eyes.
         </p><p id="psalms-36-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> For he flattereth himself in his own eyes, until his iniquity be found to be hateful.
         </p><p id="psalms-36-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> The words of his mouth are iniquity and deceit: he hath left off to be wise, and to do good.
         </p><p id="psalms-36-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> He deviseth mischief upon his bed; he setteth himself in a way that is not good; he abhorreth not evil.
         </p><p id="psalms-36-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Thy mercy, O LORD, is in the heavens; and thy faithfulness reacheth unto the clouds.
         </p><p id="psalms-36-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Thy righteousness is like the great mountains; thy judgments are a great deep: O LORD, thou preservest man and beast.
         </p><p id="psalms-36-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> How excellent is thy lovingkindness, O God! therefore the children of men put their trust under the shadow of thy wings.
         </p><p id="psalms-36-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> They shall be abundantly satisfied with the fatness of thy house; and thou shalt make them drink of the river of thy pleasures.
         </p><p id="psalms-36-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> For with thee is the fountain of life: in thy light shall we see light.
         </p><p id="psalms-36-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> O continue thy lovingkindness unto them that know thee; and thy righteousness to the upright in heart.
         </p><p id="psalms-36-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Let not the foot of pride come against me, and let not the hand of the wicked remove me.
         </p><p id="psalms-36-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> There are the workers of iniquity fallen: they are cast down, and shall not be able to rise.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-37">Psalm 37</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-37-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and wither as the green herb.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Trust in the LORD, and do good; so shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Delight thyself also in the LORD: and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Commit thy way unto the LORD; trust also in him; and he shall bring it to pass.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> And he shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Rest in the LORD, and wait patiently for him: fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Cease from anger, and forsake wrath: fret not thyself in any wise to do evil.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> For evildoers shall be cut off: but those that wait upon the LORD, they shall inherit the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> For yet a little while, and the wicked shall not be: yea, thou shalt diligently consider his place, and it shall not be.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> But the meek shall inherit the earth; and shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> The wicked plotteth against the just, and gnasheth upon him with his teeth.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> The LORD shall laugh at him: for he seeth that his day is coming.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> The wicked have drawn out the sword, and have bent their bow, to cast down the poor and needy, and to slay such as be of upright conversation.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Their sword shall enter into their own heart, and their bows shall be broken.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> A little that a righteous man hath is better than the riches of many wicked.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> For the arms of the wicked shall be broken: but the LORD upholdeth the righteous.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> The LORD knoweth the days of the upright: and their inheritance shall be for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> They shall not be ashamed in the evil time: and in the days of famine they shall be satisfied.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> But the wicked shall perish, and the enemies of the LORD shall be as the fat of lambs: they shall consume; into smoke shall they consume away.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> The wicked borroweth, and payeth not again: but the righteous sheweth mercy, and giveth.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> For such as be blessed of him shall inherit the earth; and they that be cursed of him shall be cut off.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> The steps of a good man are ordered by the LORD: and he delighteth in his way.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down: for the LORD upholdeth him with his hand.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> I have been young, and now am old; yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> He is ever merciful, and lendeth; and his seed is blessed.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> Depart from evil, and do good; and dwell for evermore.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> For the LORD loveth judgment, and forsaketh not his saints; they are preserved for ever: but the seed of the wicked shall be cut off.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> The righteous shall inherit the land, and dwell therein for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> The mouth of the righteous speaketh wisdom, and his tongue talketh of judgment.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-31"><span class="num-verse-rw">31</span> The law of his God is in his heart; none of his steps shall slide.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-32"><span class="num-verse-rw">32</span> The wicked watcheth the righteous, and seeketh to slay him.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-33"><span class="num-verse-rw">33</span> The LORD will not leave him in his hand, nor condemn him when he is judged.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-34"><span class="num-verse-rw">34</span> Wait on the LORD, and keep his way, and he shall exalt thee to inherit the land: when the wicked are cut off, thou shalt see it.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-35"><span class="num-verse-rw">35</span> I have seen the wicked in great power, and spreading himself like a green bay tree.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-36"><span class="num-verse-rw">36</span> Yet he passed away, and, lo, he was not: yea, I sought him, but he could not be found.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-37"><span class="num-verse-rw">37</span> Mark the perfect man, and behold the upright: for the end of that man is peace.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-38"><span class="num-verse-rw">38</span> But the transgressors shall be destroyed together: the end of the wicked shall be cut off.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-39"><span class="num-verse-rw">39</span> But the salvation of the righteous is of the LORD: he is their strength in the time of trouble.
         </p><p id="psalms-37-40"><span class="num-verse-rw">40</span> And the LORD shall help them, and deliver them: he shall deliver them from the wicked, and save them, because they trust in him.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-38">Psalm 38</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-38-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> O lord, rebuke me not in thy wrath: neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure.
         </p><p id="psalms-38-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> For thine arrows stick fast in me, and thy hand presseth me sore.
         </p><p id="psalms-38-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> There is no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger; neither is there any rest in my bones because of my sin.
         </p><p id="psalms-38-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> For mine iniquities are gone over mine head: as an heavy burden they are too heavy for me.
         </p><p id="psalms-38-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> My wounds stink and are corrupt because of my foolishness.
         </p><p id="psalms-38-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> I am troubled; I am bowed down greatly; I go mourning all the day long.
         </p><p id="psalms-38-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> For my loins are filled with a loathsome disease: and there is no soundness in my flesh.
         </p><p id="psalms-38-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> I am feeble and sore broken: I have roared by reason of the disquietness of my heart.
         </p><p id="psalms-38-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Lord, all my desire is before thee; and my groaning is not hid from thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-38-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> My heart panteth, my strength faileth me: as for the light of mine eyes, it also is gone from me.
         </p><p id="psalms-38-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> My lovers and my friends stand aloof from my sore; and my kinsmen stand afar off.
         </p><p id="psalms-38-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> They also that seek after my life lay snares for me: and they that seek my hurt speak mischievous things, and imagine deceits all the day long.
         </p><p id="psalms-38-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> But I, as a deaf man, heard not; and I was as a dumb man that openeth not his mouth.
         </p><p id="psalms-38-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Thus I was as a man that heareth not, and in whose mouth are no reproofs.
         </p><p id="psalms-38-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> For in thee, O LORD, do I hope: thou wilt hear, O Lord my God.
         </p><p id="psalms-38-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> For I said, Hear me, lest otherwise they should rejoice over me: when my foot slippeth, they magnify themselves against me.
         </p><p id="psalms-38-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> For I am ready to halt, and my sorrow is continually before me.
         </p><p id="psalms-38-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> For I will declare mine iniquity; I will be sorry for my sin.
         </p><p id="psalms-38-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> But mine enemies are lively, and they are strong: and they that hate me wrongfully are multiplied.
         </p><p id="psalms-38-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> They also that render evil for good are mine adversaries; because I follow the thing that good is.
         </p><p id="psalms-38-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> Forsake me not, O LORD: O my God, be not far from me.
         </p><p id="psalms-38-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> Make haste to help me, O Lord my salvation.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-39">Psalm 39</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-39-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> I said, I will take heed to my ways, that I sin not with my tongue: I will keep my mouth with a bridle, while the wicked is before me.
         </p><p id="psalms-39-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> I was dumb with silence, I held my peace, even from good; and my sorrow was stirred.
         </p><p id="psalms-39-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> My heart was hot within me, while I was musing the fire burned: then spake I with my tongue,
         </p><p id="psalms-39-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> LORD, make me to know mine end, and the measure of my days, what it is: that I may know how frail I am.
         </p><p id="psalms-39-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Behold, thou hast made my days as an handbreadth; and mine age is as nothing before thee: verily every man at his best state is altogether vanity. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-39-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Surely every man walketh in a vain shew: surely they are disquieted in vain: he heapeth up riches, and knoweth not who shall gather them.
         </p><p id="psalms-39-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> And now, Lord, what wait I for? my hope is in thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-39-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Deliver me from all my transgressions: make me not the reproach of the foolish.
         </p><p id="psalms-39-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> I was dumb, I opened not my mouth; because thou didst it.
         </p><p id="psalms-39-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Remove thy stroke away from me: I am consumed by the blow of thine hand.
         </p><p id="psalms-39-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> When thou with rebukes dost correct man for iniquity, thou makest his beauty to consume away like a moth: surely every man is vanity. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-39-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Hear my prayer, O LORD, and give ear unto my cry; hold not thy peace at my tears: for I am a stranger with thee, and a sojourner, as all my fathers were.
         </p><p id="psalms-39-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> O spare me, that I may recover strength, before I go hence, and be no more.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-40">Psalm 40</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-40-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> I waited patiently for the LORD; and he inclined unto me, and heard my cry.
         </p><p id="psalms-40-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> He brought me up also out of an horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock, and established my goings.
         </p><p id="psalms-40-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> And he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God: many shall see it, and fear, and shall trust in the LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-40-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Blessed is that man that maketh the LORD his trust, and respecteth not the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies.
         </p><p id="psalms-40-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Many, O LORD my God, are thy wonderful works which thou hast done, and thy thoughts which are to us-ward: they cannot be reckoned up in order unto thee: if I would declare and speak of them, they are more than can be numbered.
         </p><p id="psalms-40-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Sacrifice and offering thou didst not desire; mine ears hast thou opened: burnt offering and sin offering hast thou not required.
         </p><p id="psalms-40-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Then said I, Lo, I come: in the volume of the book it is written of me,
         </p><p id="psalms-40-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> I delight to do thy will, O my God: yea, thy law is within my heart.
         </p><p id="psalms-40-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> I have preached righteousness in the great congregation: lo, I have not refrained my lips, O LORD, thou knowest.
         </p><p id="psalms-40-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> I have not hid thy righteousness within my heart; I have declared thy faithfulness and thy salvation: I have not concealed thy lovingkindness and thy truth from the great congregation.
         </p><p id="psalms-40-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Withhold not thou thy tender mercies from me, O LORD: let thy lovingkindness and thy truth continually preserve me.
         </p><p id="psalms-40-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> For innumerable evils have compassed me about: mine iniquities have taken hold upon me, so that I am not able to look up; they are more than the hairs of mine head: therefore my heart faileth me.
         </p><p id="psalms-40-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Be pleased, O LORD, to deliver me: O LORD, make haste to help me.
         </p><p id="psalms-40-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Let them be ashamed and confounded together that seek after my soul to destroy it; let them be driven backward and put to shame that wish me evil.
         </p><p id="psalms-40-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Let them be desolate for a reward of their shame that say unto me, Aha, aha.
         </p><p id="psalms-40-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Let all those that seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee: let such as love thy salvation say continually, The LORD be magnified.
         </p><p id="psalms-40-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> But I am poor and needy; yet the Lord thinketh upon me: thou art my help and my deliverer; make no tarrying, O my God.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-41">Psalm 41</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-41-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Blessed is he that considereth the poor: the LORD will deliver him in time of trouble.
         </p><p id="psalms-41-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> The LORD will preserve him, and keep him alive; and he shall be blessed upon the earth: and thou wilt not deliver him unto the will of his enemies.
         </p><p id="psalms-41-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> The LORD will strengthen him upon the bed of languishing: thou wilt make all his bed in his sickness.
         </p><p id="psalms-41-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> I said, LORD, be merciful unto me: heal my soul; for I have sinned against thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-41-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Mine enemies speak evil of me, When shall he die, and his name perish?
         </p><p id="psalms-41-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> And if he come to see me, he speaketh vanity: his heart gathereth iniquity to itself; when he goeth abroad, he telleth it.
         </p><p id="psalms-41-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> All that hate me whisper together against me: against me do they devise my hurt.
         </p><p id="psalms-41-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> An evil disease, say they, cleaveth fast unto him: and now that he lieth he shall rise up no more.
         </p><p id="psalms-41-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Yea, mine own familiar friend, in whom I trusted, which did eat of my bread, hath lifted up his heel against me.
         </p><p id="psalms-41-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> But thou, O LORD, be merciful unto me, and raise me up, that I may requite them.
         </p><p id="psalms-41-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> By this I know that thou favourest me, because mine enemy doth not triumph over me.
         </p><p id="psalms-41-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> And as for me, thou upholdest me in mine integrity, and settest me before thy face for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-41-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Blessed be the LORD God of Israel from everlasting, and to everlasting. Amen, and Amen.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-42">Psalm 42</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-42-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> As the hart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after thee, O God.
         </p><p id="psalms-42-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God: when shall I come and appear before God?
         </p><p id="psalms-42-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> My tears have been my meat day and night, while they continually say unto me, Where is thy God?
         </p><p id="psalms-42-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> When I remember these things, I pour out my soul in me: for I had gone with the multitude, I went with them to the house of God, with the voice of joy and praise, with a multitude that kept holyday.
         </p><p id="psalms-42-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted in me? hope thou in God: for I shall yet praise him for the help of his countenance.
         </p><p id="psalms-42-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> O my God, my soul is cast down within me: therefore will I remember thee from the land of Jordan, and of the Hermonites, from the hill Mizar.
         </p><p id="psalms-42-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Deep calleth unto deep at the noise of thy waterspouts: all thy waves and thy billows are gone over me.
         </p><p id="psalms-42-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Yet the LORD will command his lovingkindness in the day time, and in the night his song shall be with me, and my prayer unto the God of my life.
         </p><p id="psalms-42-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> I will say unto God my rock, Why hast thou forgotten me? why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?
         </p><p id="psalms-42-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> As with a sword in my bones, mine enemies reproach me; while they say daily unto me, Where is thy God?
         </p><p id="psalms-42-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted within me? hope thou in God: for I shall yet praise him, who is the health of my countenance, and my God.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-43">Psalm 43</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-43-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Judge me, O God, and plead my cause against an ungodly nation: O deliver me from the deceitful and unjust man.
         </p><p id="psalms-43-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> For thou art the God of my strength: why dost thou cast me off? why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?
         </p><p id="psalms-43-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> O send out thy light and thy truth: let them lead me; let them bring me unto thy holy hill, and to thy tabernacles.
         </p><p id="psalms-43-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Then will I go unto the altar of God, unto God my exceeding joy: yea, upon the harp will I praise thee, O God my God.
         </p><p id="psalms-43-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted within me? hope in God: for I shall yet praise him, who is the health of my countenance, and my God.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-44">Psalm 44</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-44-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> We have heard with our ears, O God, our fathers have told us, what work thou didst in their days, in the times of old.
         </p><p id="psalms-44-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> How thou didst drive out the heathen with thy hand, and plantedst them; how thou didst afflict the people, and cast them out.
         </p><p id="psalms-44-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> For they got not the land in possession by their own sword, neither did their own arm save them: but thy right hand, and thine arm, and the light of thy countenance, because thou hadst a favour unto them.
         </p><p id="psalms-44-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Thou art my King, O God: command deliverances for Jacob.
         </p><p id="psalms-44-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Through thee will we push down our enemies: through thy name will we tread them under that rise up against us.
         </p><p id="psalms-44-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> For I will not trust in my bow, neither shall my sword save me.
         </p><p id="psalms-44-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> But thou hast saved us from our enemies, and hast put them to shame that hated us.
         </p><p id="psalms-44-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> In God we boast all the day long, and praise thy name for ever. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-44-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> But thou hast cast off, and put us to shame; and goest not forth with our armies.
         </p><p id="psalms-44-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Thou makest us to turn back from the enemy: and they which hate us spoil for themselves.
         </p><p id="psalms-44-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Thou hast given us like sheep appointed for meat; and hast scattered us among the heathen.
         </p><p id="psalms-44-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Thou sellest thy people for nought, and dost not increase thy wealth by their price.
         </p><p id="psalms-44-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Thou makest us a reproach to our neighbours, a scorn and a derision to them that are round about us.
         </p><p id="psalms-44-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Thou makest us a byword among the heathen, a shaking of the head among the people.
         </p><p id="psalms-44-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> My confusion is continually before me, and the shame of my face hath covered me,
         </p><p id="psalms-44-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> For the voice of him that reproacheth and blasphemeth; by reason of the enemy and avenger.
         </p><p id="psalms-44-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> All this is come upon us; yet have we not forgotten thee, neither have we dealt falsely in thy covenant.
         </p><p id="psalms-44-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Our heart is not turned back, neither have our steps declined from thy way;
         </p><p id="psalms-44-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Though thou hast sore broken us in the place of dragons, and covered us with the shadow of death.
         </p><p id="psalms-44-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> If we have forgotten the name of our God, or stretched out our hands to a strange god;
         </p><p id="psalms-44-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> Shall not God search this out? for he knoweth the secrets of the heart.
         </p><p id="psalms-44-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> Yea, for thy sake are we killed all the day long; we are counted as sheep for the slaughter.
         </p><p id="psalms-44-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> Awake, why sleepest thou, O Lord? arise, cast us not off for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-44-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> Wherefore hidest thou thy face, and forgettest our affliction and our oppression?
         </p><p id="psalms-44-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> For our soul is bowed down to the dust: our belly cleaveth unto the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-44-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> Arise for our help, and redeem us for thy mercies' sake.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-45">Psalm 45</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-45-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> My heart is inditing a good matter: I speak of the things which I have made touching the king: my tongue is the pen of a ready writer.
         </p><p id="psalms-45-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Thou art fairer than the children of men: grace is poured into thy lips: therefore God hath blessed thee for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-45-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Gird thy sword upon thy thigh, O most mighty, with thy glory and thy majesty.
         </p><p id="psalms-45-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> And in thy majesty ride prosperously because of truth and meekness and righteousness; and thy right hand shall teach thee terrible things.
         </p><p id="psalms-45-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Thine arrows are sharp in the heart of the king's enemies; whereby the people fall under thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-45-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: the sceptre of thy kingdom is a right sceptre.
         </p><p id="psalms-45-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Thou lovest righteousness, and hatest wickedness: therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows.
         </p><p id="psalms-45-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> All thy garments smell of myrrh, and aloes, and cassia, out of the ivory palaces, whereby they have made thee glad.
         </p><p id="psalms-45-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Kings' daughters were among thy honourable women: upon thy right hand did stand the queen in gold of Ophir.
         </p><p id="psalms-45-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Hearken, O daughter, and consider, and incline thine ear; forget also thine own people, and thy father's house;
         </p><p id="psalms-45-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> So shall the king greatly desire thy beauty: for he is thy Lord; and worship thou him.
         </p><p id="psalms-45-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> And the daughter of Tyre shall be there with a gift; even the rich among the people shall intreat thy favour.
         </p><p id="psalms-45-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> The king's daughter is all glorious within: her clothing is of wrought gold.
         </p><p id="psalms-45-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> She shall be brought unto the king in raiment of needlework: the virgins her companions that follow her shall be brought unto thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-45-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> With gladness and rejoicing shall they be brought: they shall enter into the king's palace.
         </p><p id="psalms-45-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Instead of thy fathers shall be thy children, whom thou mayest make princes in all the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-45-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> I will make thy name to be remembered in all generations: therefore shall the people praise thee for ever and ever.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-46">Psalm 46</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-46-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble.
         </p><p id="psalms-46-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Therefore will not we fear, though the earth be removed, and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea;
         </p><p id="psalms-46-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Though the waters thereof roar and be troubled, though the mountains shake with the swelling thereof. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-46-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> There is a river, the streams whereof shall make glad the city of God, the holy place of the tabernacles of the most High.
         </p><p id="psalms-46-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> God is in the midst of her; she shall not be moved: God shall help her, and that right early.
         </p><p id="psalms-46-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> The heathen raged, the kingdoms were moved: he uttered his voice, the earth melted.
         </p><p id="psalms-46-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> The LORD of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our refuge. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-46-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Come, behold the works of the LORD, what desolations he hath made in the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-46-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> He maketh wars to cease unto the end of the earth; he breaketh the bow, and cutteth the spear in sunder; he burneth the chariot in the fire.
         </p><p id="psalms-46-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Be still, and know that I am God: I will be exalted among the heathen, I will be exalted in the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-46-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> The LORD of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our refuge. Selah.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-47">Psalm 47</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-47-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> O clap your hands, all ye people; shout unto God with the voice of triumph.
         </p><p id="psalms-47-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> For the LORD most high is terrible; he is a great King over all the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-47-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> He shall subdue the people under us, and the nations under our feet.
         </p><p id="psalms-47-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> He shall choose our inheritance for us, the excellency of Jacob whom he loved. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-47-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> God is gone up with a shout, the LORD with the sound of a trumpet.
         </p><p id="psalms-47-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Sing praises to God, sing praises: sing praises unto our King, sing praises.
         </p><p id="psalms-47-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> For God is the King of all the earth: sing ye praises with understanding.
         </p><p id="psalms-47-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> God reigneth over the heathen: God sitteth upon the throne of his holiness.
         </p><p id="psalms-47-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> The princes of the people are gathered together, even the people of the God of Abraham: for the shields of the earth belong unto God: he is greatly exalted.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-48">Psalm 48</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-48-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised in the city of our God, in the mountain of his holiness.
         </p><p id="psalms-48-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth, is mount Zion, on the sides of the north, the city of the great King.
         </p><p id="psalms-48-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> God is known in her palaces for a refuge.
         </p><p id="psalms-48-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> For, lo, the kings were assembled, they passed by together.
         </p><p id="psalms-48-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> They saw it, and so they marvelled; they were troubled, and hasted away.
         </p><p id="psalms-48-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Fear took hold upon them there, and pain, as of a woman in travail.
         </p><p id="psalms-48-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Thou breakest the ships of Tarshish with an east wind.
         </p><p id="psalms-48-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> As we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the LORD of hosts, in the city of our God: God will establish it for ever. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-48-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> We have thought of thy lovingkindness, O God, in the midst of thy temple.
         </p><p id="psalms-48-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> According to thy name, O God, so is thy praise unto the ends of the earth: thy right hand is full of righteousness.
         </p><p id="psalms-48-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Let mount Zion rejoice, let the daughters of Judah be glad, because of thy judgments.
         </p><p id="psalms-48-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Walk about Zion, and go round about her: tell the towers thereof.
         </p><p id="psalms-48-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Mark ye well her bulwarks, consider her palaces; that ye may tell it to the generation following.
         </p><p id="psalms-48-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> For this God is our God for ever and ever: he will be our guide even unto death.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-49">Psalm 49</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-49-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Hear this, all ye people; give ear, all ye inhabitants of the world:
         </p><p id="psalms-49-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Both low and high, rich and poor, together.
         </p><p id="psalms-49-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> My mouth shall speak of wisdom; and the meditation of my heart shall be of understanding.
         </p><p id="psalms-49-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> I will incline mine ear to a parable: I will open my dark saying upon the harp.
         </p><p id="psalms-49-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Wherefore should I fear in the days of evil, when the iniquity of my heels shall compass me about?
         </p><p id="psalms-49-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> They that trust in their wealth, and boast themselves in the multitude of their riches;
         </p><p id="psalms-49-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> None of them can by any means redeem his brother, nor give to God a ransom for him:
         </p><p id="psalms-49-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> (For the redemption of their soul is precious, and it ceaseth for ever:)
         </p><p id="psalms-49-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> That he should still live for ever, and not see corruption.
         </p><p id="psalms-49-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> For he seeth that wise men die, likewise the fool and the brutish person perish, and leave their wealth to others.
         </p><p id="psalms-49-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Their inward thought is, that their houses shall continue for ever, and their dwelling places to all generations; they call their lands after their own names.
         </p><p id="psalms-49-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Nevertheless man being in honour abideth not: he is like the beasts that perish.
         </p><p id="psalms-49-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> This their way is their folly: yet their posterity approve their sayings. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-49-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Like sheep they are laid in the grave; death shall feed on them; and the upright shall have dominion over them in the morning; and their beauty shall consume in the grave from their dwelling.
         </p><p id="psalms-49-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> But God will redeem my soul from the power of the grave: for he shall receive me. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-49-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Be not thou afraid when one is made rich, when the glory of his house is increased;
         </p><p id="psalms-49-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> For when he dieth he shall carry nothing away: his glory shall not descend after him.
         </p><p id="psalms-49-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Though while he lived he blessed his soul: and men will praise thee, when thou doest well to thyself.
         </p><p id="psalms-49-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> He shall go to the generation of his fathers; they shall never see light.
         </p><p id="psalms-49-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Man that is in honour, and understandeth not, is like the beasts that perish.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-50">Psalm 50</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-50-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> The mighty God, even the LORD, hath spoken, and called the earth from the rising of the sun unto the going down thereof.
         </p><p id="psalms-50-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God hath shined.
         </p><p id="psalms-50-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Our God shall come, and shall not keep silence: a fire shall devour before him, and it shall be very tempestuous round about him.
         </p><p id="psalms-50-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> He shall call to the heavens from above, and to the earth, that he may judge his people.
         </p><p id="psalms-50-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Gather my saints together unto me; those that have made a covenant with me by sacrifice.
         </p><p id="psalms-50-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> And the heavens shall declare his righteousness: for God is judge himself. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-50-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Hear, O my people, and I will speak; O Israel, and I will testify against thee: I am God, even thy God.
         </p><p id="psalms-50-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> I will not reprove thee for thy sacrifices or thy burnt offerings, to have been continually before me.
         </p><p id="psalms-50-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> I will take no bullock out of thy house, nor he goats out of thy folds.
         </p><p id="psalms-50-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> For every beast of the forest is mine, and the cattle upon a thousand hills.
         </p><p id="psalms-50-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> I know all the fowls of the mountains: and the wild beasts of the field are mine.
         </p><p id="psalms-50-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> If I were hungry, I would not tell thee: for the world is mine, and the fulness thereof.
         </p><p id="psalms-50-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Will I eat the flesh of bulls, or drink the blood of goats?
         </p><p id="psalms-50-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Offer unto God thanksgiving; and pay thy vows unto the most High:
         </p><p id="psalms-50-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> And call upon me in the day of trouble: I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me.
         </p><p id="psalms-50-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> But unto the wicked God saith, What hast thou to do to declare my statutes, or that thou shouldest take my covenant in thy mouth?
         </p><p id="psalms-50-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Seeing thou hatest instruction, and casteth my words behind thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-50-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> When thou sawest a thief, then thou consentedst with him, and hast been partaker with adulterers.
         </p><p id="psalms-50-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Thou givest thy mouth to evil, and thy tongue frameth deceit.
         </p><p id="psalms-50-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Thou sittest and speakest against thy brother; thou slanderest thine own mother's son.
         </p><p id="psalms-50-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> These things hast thou done, and I kept silence; thou thoughtest that I was altogether such an one as thyself: but I will reprove thee, and set them in order before thine eyes.
         </p><p id="psalms-50-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> Now consider this, ye that forget God, lest I tear you in pieces, and there be none to deliver.
         </p><p id="psalms-50-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> Whoso offereth praise glorifieth me: and to him that ordereth his conversation aright will I shew the salvation of God.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-51">Psalm 51</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-51-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy lovingkindness: according unto the multitude of thy tender mercies blot out my transgressions.
         </p><p id="psalms-51-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Wash me throughly from mine iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin.
         </p><p id="psalms-51-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> For I acknowledge my transgressions: and my sin is ever before me.
         </p><p id="psalms-51-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Against thee, thee only, have I sinned, and done this evil in thy sight: that thou mightest be justified when thou speakest, and be clear when thou judgest.
         </p><p id="psalms-51-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Behold, I was shapen in iniquity; and in sin did my mother conceive me.
         </p><p id="psalms-51-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts: and in the hidden part thou shalt make me to know wisdom.
         </p><p id="psalms-51-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean: wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow.
         </p><p id="psalms-51-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Make me to hear joy and gladness; that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice.
         </p><p id="psalms-51-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Hide thy face from my sins, and blot out all mine iniquities.
         </p><p id="psalms-51-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Create in me a clean heart, O God; and renew a right spirit within me.
         </p><p id="psalms-51-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Cast me not away from thy presence; and take not thy holy spirit from me.
         </p><p id="psalms-51-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation; and uphold me with thy free spirit.
         </p><p id="psalms-51-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Then will I teach transgressors thy ways; and sinners shall be converted unto thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-51-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Deliver me from bloodguiltiness, O God, thou God of my salvation: and my tongue shall sing aloud of thy righteousness.
         </p><p id="psalms-51-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> O Lord, open thou my lips; and my mouth shall shew forth thy praise.
         </p><p id="psalms-51-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> For thou desirest not sacrifice; else would I give it: thou delightest not in burnt offering.
         </p><p id="psalms-51-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit: a broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise.
         </p><p id="psalms-51-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Do good in thy good pleasure unto Zion: build thou the walls of Jerusalem.
         </p><p id="psalms-51-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Then shalt thou be pleased with the sacrifices of righteousness, with burnt offering and whole burnt offering: then shall they offer bullocks upon thine altar.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-52">Psalm 52</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-52-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Why boastest thou thyself in mischief, O mighty man? the goodness of God endureth continually.
         </p><p id="psalms-52-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> The tongue deviseth mischiefs; like a sharp razor, working deceitfully.
         </p><p id="psalms-52-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Thou lovest evil more than good; and lying rather than to speak righteousness. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-52-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Thou lovest all devouring words, O thou deceitful tongue.
         </p><p id="psalms-52-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> God shall likewise destroy thee for ever, he shall take thee away, and pluck thee out of thy dwelling place, and root thee out of the land of the living. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-52-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> The righteous also shall see, and fear, and shall laugh at him:
         </p><p id="psalms-52-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Lo, this is the man that made not God his strength; but trusted in the abundance of his riches, and strengthened himself in his wickedness.
         </p><p id="psalms-52-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God: I trust in the mercy of God for ever and ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-52-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> I will praise thee for ever, because thou hast done it: and I will wait on thy name; for it is good before thy saints.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-53">Psalm 53</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-53-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. Corrupt are they, and have done abominable iniquity: there is none that doeth good.
         </p><p id="psalms-53-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> God looked down from heaven upon the children of men, to see if there were any that did understand, that did seek God.
         </p><p id="psalms-53-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Every one of them is gone back: they are altogether become filthy; there is none that doeth good, no, not one.
         </p><p id="psalms-53-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Have the workers of iniquity no knowledge? who eat up my people as they eat bread: they have not called upon God.
         </p><p id="psalms-53-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> There were they in great fear, where no fear was: for God hath scattered the bones of him that encampeth against thee: thou hast put them to shame, because God hath despised them.
         </p><p id="psalms-53-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Oh that the salvation of Israel were come out of Zion! When God bringeth back the captivity of his people, Jacob shall rejoice, and Israel shall be glad.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-54">Psalm 54</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-54-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Save me, O God, by thy name, and judge me by thy strength.
         </p><p id="psalms-54-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Hear my prayer, O God; give ear to the words of my mouth.
         </p><p id="psalms-54-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> For strangers are risen up against me, and oppressors seek after my soul: they have not set God before them. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-54-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Behold, God is mine helper: the Lord is with them that uphold my soul.
         </p><p id="psalms-54-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> He shall reward evil unto mine enemies: cut them off in thy truth.
         </p><p id="psalms-54-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> I will freely sacrifice unto thee: I will praise thy name, O LORD; for it is good.
         </p><p id="psalms-54-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> For he hath delivered me out of all trouble: and mine eye hath seen his desire upon mine enemies.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-55">Psalm 55</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-55-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Give ear to my prayer, O God; and hide not thyself from my supplication.
         </p><p id="psalms-55-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Attend unto me, and hear me: I mourn in my complaint, and make a noise;
         </p><p id="psalms-55-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Because of the voice of the enemy, because of the oppression of the wicked: for they cast iniquity upon me, and in wrath they hate me.
         </p><p id="psalms-55-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> My heart is sore pained within me: and the terrors of death are fallen upon me.
         </p><p id="psalms-55-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Fearfulness and trembling are come upon me, and horror hath overwhelmed me.
         </p><p id="psalms-55-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> And I said, Oh that I had wings like a dove! for then would I fly away, and be at rest.
         </p><p id="psalms-55-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Lo, then would I wander far off, and remain in the wilderness. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-55-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> I would hasten my escape from the windy storm and tempest.
         </p><p id="psalms-55-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Destroy, O Lord, and divide their tongues: for I have seen violence and strife in the city.
         </p><p id="psalms-55-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Day and night they go about it upon the walls thereof: mischief also and sorrow are in the midst of it.
         </p><p id="psalms-55-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Wickedness is in the midst thereof: deceit and guile depart not from her streets.
         </p><p id="psalms-55-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> For it was not an enemy that reproached me; then I could have borne it: neither was it he that hated me that did magnify himself against me; then I would have hid myself from him:
         </p><p id="psalms-55-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> But it was thou, a man mine equal, my guide, and mine acquaintance.
         </p><p id="psalms-55-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> We took sweet counsel together, and walked unto the house of God in company.
         </p><p id="psalms-55-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Let death seize upon them, and let them go down quick into hell: for wickedness is in their dwellings, and among them.
         </p><p id="psalms-55-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> As for me, I will call upon God; and the LORD shall save me.
         </p><p id="psalms-55-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Evening, and morning, and at noon, will I pray, and cry aloud: and he shall hear my voice.
         </p><p id="psalms-55-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> He hath delivered my soul in peace from the battle that was against me: for there were many with me.
         </p><p id="psalms-55-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> God shall hear, and afflict them, even he that abideth of old. Selah. Because they have no changes, therefore they fear not God.
         </p><p id="psalms-55-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> He hath put forth his hands against such as be at peace with him: he hath broken his covenant.
         </p><p id="psalms-55-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> The words of his mouth were smoother than butter, but war was in his heart: his words were softer than oil, yet were they drawn swords.
         </p><p id="psalms-55-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> Cast thy burden upon the LORD, and he shall sustain thee: he shall never suffer the righteous to be moved.
         </p><p id="psalms-55-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> But thou, O God, shalt bring them down into the pit of destruction: bloody and deceitful men shall not live out half their days; but I will trust in thee.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-56">Psalm 56</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-56-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Be merciful unto me, O God: for man would swallow me up; he fighting daily oppresseth me.
         </p><p id="psalms-56-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Mine enemies would daily swallow me up: for they be many that fight against me, O thou most High.
         </p><p id="psalms-56-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-56-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> In God I will praise his word, in God I have put my trust; I will not fear what flesh can do unto me.
         </p><p id="psalms-56-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Every day they wrest my words: all their thoughts are against me for evil.
         </p><p id="psalms-56-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> They gather themselves together, they hide themselves, they mark my steps, when they wait for my soul.
         </p><p id="psalms-56-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Shall they escape by iniquity? in thine anger cast down the people, O God.
         </p><p id="psalms-56-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Thou tellest my wanderings: put thou my tears into thy bottle: are they not in thy book?
         </p><p id="psalms-56-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> When I cry unto thee, then shall mine enemies turn back: this I know; for God is for me.
         </p><p id="psalms-56-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> In God will I praise his word: in the LORD will I praise his word.
         </p><p id="psalms-56-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> In God have I put my trust: I will not be afraid what man can do unto me.
         </p><p id="psalms-56-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Thy vows are upon me, O God: I will render praises unto thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-56-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> For thou hast delivered my soul from death: wilt not thou deliver my feet from falling, that I may walk before God in the light of the living?
         </p><h2 id="psalms-57">Psalm 57</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-57-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Be merciful unto me, O God, be merciful unto me: for my soul trusteth in thee: yea, in the shadow of thy wings will I make my refuge, until these calamities be overpast.
         </p><p id="psalms-57-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> I will cry unto God most high; unto God that performeth all things for me.
         </p><p id="psalms-57-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> He shall send from heaven, and save me from the reproach of him that would swallow me up. Selah. God shall send forth his mercy and his truth.
         </p><p id="psalms-57-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> My soul is among lions: and I lie even among them that are set on fire, even the sons of men, whose teeth are spears and arrows, and their tongue a sharp sword.
         </p><p id="psalms-57-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens; let thy glory be above all the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-57-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> They have prepared a net for my steps; my soul is bowed down: they have digged a pit before me, into the midst whereof they are fallen themselves. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-57-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> My heart is fixed, O God, my heart is fixed: I will sing and give praise.
         </p><p id="psalms-57-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Awake up, my glory; awake, psaltery and harp: I myself will awake early.
         </p><p id="psalms-57-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> I will praise thee, O Lord, among the people: I will sing unto thee among the nations.
         </p><p id="psalms-57-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> For thy mercy is great unto the heavens, and thy truth unto the clouds.
         </p><p id="psalms-57-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens: let thy glory be above all the earth.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-58">Psalm 58</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-58-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Do ye indeed speak righteousness, O congregation? do ye judge uprightly, O ye sons of men?
         </p><p id="psalms-58-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Yea, in heart ye work wickedness; ye weigh the violence of your hands in the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-58-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> The wicked are estranged from the womb: they go astray as soon as they be born, speaking lies.
         </p><p id="psalms-58-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Their poison is like the poison of a serpent: they are like the deaf adder that stoppeth her ear;
         </p><p id="psalms-58-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Which will not hearken to the voice of charmers, charming never so wisely.
         </p><p id="psalms-58-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Break their teeth, O God, in their mouth: break out the great teeth of the young lions, O LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-58-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Let them melt away as waters which run continually: when he bendeth his bow to shoot his arrows, let them be as cut in pieces.
         </p><p id="psalms-58-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> As a snail which melteth, let every one of them pass away: like the untimely birth of a woman, that they may not see the sun.
         </p><p id="psalms-58-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Before your pots can feel the thorns, he shall take them away as with a whirlwind, both living, and in his wrath.
         </p><p id="psalms-58-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> The righteous shall rejoice when he seeth the vengeance: he shall wash his feet in the blood of the wicked.
         </p><p id="psalms-58-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> So that a man shall say, Verily there is a reward for the righteous: verily he is a God that judgeth in the earth.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-59">Psalm 59</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-59-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Deliver me from mine enemies, O my God: defend me from them that rise up against me.
         </p><p id="psalms-59-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Deliver me from the workers of iniquity, and save me from bloody men.
         </p><p id="psalms-59-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> For, lo, they lie in wait for my soul: the mighty are gathered against me; not for my transgression, nor for my sin, O LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-59-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> They run and prepare themselves without my fault: awake to help me, and behold.
         </p><p id="psalms-59-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Thou therefore, O LORD God of hosts, the God of Israel, awake to visit all the heathen: be not merciful to any wicked transgressors. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-59-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> They return at evening: they make a noise like a dog, and go round about the city.
         </p><p id="psalms-59-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Behold, they belch out with their mouth: swords are in their lips: for who, say they, doth hear?
         </p><p id="psalms-59-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> But thou, O LORD, shalt laugh at them; thou shalt have all the heathen in derision.
         </p><p id="psalms-59-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Because of his strength will I wait upon thee: for God is my defence.
         </p><p id="psalms-59-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> The God of my mercy shall prevent me: God shall let me see my desire upon mine enemies.
         </p><p id="psalms-59-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Slay them not, lest my people forget: scatter them by thy power; and bring them down, O Lord our shield.
         </p><p id="psalms-59-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> For the sin of their mouth and the words of their lips let them even be taken in their pride: and for cursing and lying which they speak.
         </p><p id="psalms-59-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Consume them in wrath, consume them, that they may not be: and let them know that God ruleth in Jacob unto the ends of the earth. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-59-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> And at evening let them return; and let them make a noise like a dog, and go round about the city.
         </p><p id="psalms-59-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Let them wander up and down for meat, and grudge if they be not satisfied.
         </p><p id="psalms-59-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> But I will sing of thy power; yea, I will sing aloud of thy mercy in the morning: for thou hast been my defence and refuge in the day of my trouble.
         </p><p id="psalms-59-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Unto thee, O my strength, will I sing: for God is my defence, and the God of my mercy.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-60">Psalm 60</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-60-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> O God, thou hast cast us off, thou hast scattered us, thou hast been displeased; O turn thyself to us again.
         </p><p id="psalms-60-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Thou hast made the earth to tremble; thou hast broken it: heal the breaches thereof; for it shaketh.
         </p><p id="psalms-60-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Thou hast shewed thy people hard things: thou hast made us to drink the wine of astonishment.
         </p><p id="psalms-60-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Thou hast given a banner to them that fear thee, that it may be displayed because of the truth. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-60-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> That thy beloved may be delivered; save with thy right hand, and hear me.
         </p><p id="psalms-60-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> God hath spoken in his holiness; I will rejoice, I will divide Shechem, and mete out the valley of Succoth.
         </p><p id="psalms-60-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine; Ephraim also is the strength of mine head; Judah is my lawgiver;
         </p><p id="psalms-60-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Moab is my washpot; over Edom will I cast out my shoe: Philistia, triumph thou because of me.
         </p><p id="psalms-60-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Who will bring me into the strong city? who will lead me into Edom?
         </p><p id="psalms-60-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Wilt not thou, O God, which hadst cast us off? and thou, O God, which didst not go out with our armies?
         </p><p id="psalms-60-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Give us help from trouble: for vain is the help of man.
         </p><p id="psalms-60-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Through God we shall do valiantly: for he it is that shall tread down our enemies.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-61">Psalm 61</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-61-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Hear my cry, O God; attend unto my prayer.
         </p><p id="psalms-61-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> From the end of the earth will I cry unto thee, when my heart is overwhelmed: lead me to the rock that is higher than I.
         </p><p id="psalms-61-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> For thou hast been a shelter for me, and a strong tower from the enemy.
         </p><p id="psalms-61-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> I will abide in thy tabernacle for ever: I will trust in the covert of thy wings. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-61-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> For thou, O God, hast heard my vows: thou hast given me the heritage of those that fear thy name.
         </p><p id="psalms-61-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Thou wilt prolong the king's life: and his years as many generations.
         </p><p id="psalms-61-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> He shall abide before God for ever: O prepare mercy and truth, which may preserve him.
         </p><p id="psalms-61-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> So will I sing praise unto thy name for ever, that I may daily perform my vows.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-62">Psalm 62</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-62-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Truly my soul waiteth upon God: from him cometh my salvation.
         </p><p id="psalms-62-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> He only is my rock and my salvation; he is my defence; I shall not be greatly moved.
         </p><p id="psalms-62-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> How long will ye imagine mischief against a man? ye shall be slain all of you: as a bowing wall shall ye be, and as a tottering fence.
         </p><p id="psalms-62-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> They only consult to cast him down from his excellency: they delight in lies: they bless with their mouth, but they curse inwardly. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-62-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> My soul, wait thou only upon God; for my expectation is from him.
         </p><p id="psalms-62-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> He only is my rock and my salvation: he is my defence; I shall not be moved.
         </p><p id="psalms-62-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> In God is my salvation and my glory: the rock of my strength, and my refuge, is in God.
         </p><p id="psalms-62-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Trust in him at all times; ye people, pour out your heart before him: God is a refuge for us. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-62-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Surely men of low degree are vanity, and men of high degree are a lie: to be laid in the balance, they are altogether lighter than vanity.
         </p><p id="psalms-62-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Trust not in oppression, and become not vain in robbery: if riches increase, set not your heart upon them.
         </p><p id="psalms-62-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> God hath spoken once; twice have I heard this; that power belongeth unto God.
         </p><p id="psalms-62-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Also unto thee, O Lord, belongeth mercy: for thou renderest to every man according to his work.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-63">Psalm 63</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-63-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> O God, thou art my God; early will I seek thee: my soul thirsteth for thee, my flesh longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty land, where no water is;
         </p><p id="psalms-63-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> To see thy power and thy glory, so as I have seen thee in the sanctuary.
         </p><p id="psalms-63-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Because thy lovingkindness is better than life, my lips shall praise thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-63-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Thus will I bless thee while I live: I will lift up my hands in thy name.
         </p><p id="psalms-63-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> My soul shall be satisfied as with marrow and fatness; and my mouth shall praise thee with joyful lips:
         </p><p id="psalms-63-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> When I remember thee upon my bed, and meditate on thee in the night watches.
         </p><p id="psalms-63-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Because thou hast been my help, therefore in the shadow of thy wings will I rejoice.
         </p><p id="psalms-63-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> My soul followeth hard after thee: thy right hand upholdeth me.
         </p><p id="psalms-63-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> But those that seek my soul, to destroy it, shall go into the lower parts of the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-63-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> They shall fall by the sword: they shall be a portion for foxes.
         </p><p id="psalms-63-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> But the king shall rejoice in God; every one that sweareth by him shall glory: but the mouth of them that speak lies shall be stopped.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-64">Psalm 64</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-64-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Hear my voice, O God, in my prayer: preserve my life from fear of the enemy.
         </p><p id="psalms-64-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Hide me from the secret counsel of the wicked; from the insurrection of the workers of iniquity:
         </p><p id="psalms-64-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Who whet their tongue like a sword, and bend their bows to shoot their arrows, even bitter words:
         </p><p id="psalms-64-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> That they may shoot in secret at the perfect: suddenly do they shoot at him, and fear not.
         </p><p id="psalms-64-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> They encourage themselves in an evil matter: they commune of laying snares privily; they say, Who shall see them?
         </p><p id="psalms-64-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> They search out iniquities; they accomplish a diligent search: both the inward thought of every one of them, and the heart, is deep.
         </p><p id="psalms-64-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> But God shall shoot at them with an arrow; suddenly shall they be wounded.
         </p><p id="psalms-64-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> So they shall make their own tongue to fall upon themselves: all that see them shall flee away.
         </p><p id="psalms-64-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> And all men shall fear, and shall declare the work of God; for they shall wisely consider of his doing.
         </p><p id="psalms-64-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> The righteous shall be glad in the LORD, and shall trust in him; and all the upright in heart shall glory.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-65">Psalm 65</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-65-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Praise waiteth for thee, O God, in Sion: and unto thee shall the vow be performed.
         </p><p id="psalms-65-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> O thou that hearest prayer, unto thee shall all flesh come.
         </p><p id="psalms-65-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Iniquities prevail against me: as for our transgressions, thou shalt purge them away.
         </p><p id="psalms-65-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Blessed is the man whom thou choosest, and causest to approach unto thee, that he may dwell in thy courts: we shall be satisfied with the goodness of thy house, even of thy holy temple.
         </p><p id="psalms-65-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> By terrible things in righteousness wilt thou answer us, O God of our salvation; who art the confidence of all the ends of the earth, and of them that are afar off upon the sea:
         </p><p id="psalms-65-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Which by his strength setteth fast the mountains; being girded with power:
         </p><p id="psalms-65-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Which stilleth the noise of the seas, the noise of their waves, and the tumult of the people.
         </p><p id="psalms-65-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> They also that dwell in the uttermost parts are afraid at thy tokens: thou makest the outgoings of the morning and evening to rejoice.
         </p><p id="psalms-65-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Thou visitest the earth, and waterest it: thou greatly enrichest it with the river of God, which is full of water: thou preparest them corn, when thou hast so provided for it.
         </p><p id="psalms-65-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Thou waterest the ridges thereof abundantly: thou settlest the furrows thereof: thou makest it soft with showers: thou blessest the springing thereof.
         </p><p id="psalms-65-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Thou crownest the year with thy goodness; and thy paths drop fatness.
         </p><p id="psalms-65-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> They drop upon the pastures of the wilderness: and the little hills rejoice on every side.
         </p><p id="psalms-65-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> The pastures are clothed with flocks; the valleys also are covered over with corn; they shout for joy, they also sing.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-66">Psalm 66</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-66-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Make a joyful noise unto God, all ye lands:
         </p><p id="psalms-66-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Sing forth the honour of his name: make his praise glorious.
         </p><p id="psalms-66-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Say unto God, How terrible art thou in thy works! through the greatness of thy power shall thine enemies submit themselves unto thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-66-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> All the earth shall worship thee, and shall sing unto thee; they shall sing to thy name. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-66-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Come and see the works of God: he is terrible in his doing toward the children of men.
         </p><p id="psalms-66-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> He turned the sea into dry land: they went through the flood on foot: there did we rejoice in him.
         </p><p id="psalms-66-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> He ruleth by his power for ever; his eyes behold the nations: let not the rebellious exalt themselves. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-66-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> O bless our God, ye people, and make the voice of his praise to be heard:
         </p><p id="psalms-66-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Which holdeth our soul in life, and suffereth not our feet to be moved.
         </p><p id="psalms-66-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> For thou, O God, hast proved us: thou hast tried us, as silver is tried.
         </p><p id="psalms-66-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Thou broughtest us into the net; thou laidst affliction upon our loins.
         </p><p id="psalms-66-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Thou hast caused men to ride over our heads; we went through fire and through water: but thou broughtest us out into a wealthy place.
         </p><p id="psalms-66-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> I will go into thy house with burnt offerings: I will pay thee my vows,
         </p><p id="psalms-66-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Which my lips have uttered, and my mouth hath spoken, when I was in trouble.
         </p><p id="psalms-66-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> I will offer unto thee burnt sacrifices of fatlings, with the incense of rams; I will offer bullocks with goats. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-66-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Come and hear, all ye that fear God, and I will declare what he hath done for my soul.
         </p><p id="psalms-66-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> I cried unto him with my mouth, and he was extolled with my tongue.
         </p><p id="psalms-66-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me:
         </p><p id="psalms-66-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> But verily God hath heard me; he hath attended to the voice of my prayer.
         </p><p id="psalms-66-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Blessed be God, which hath not turned away my prayer, nor his mercy from me.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-67">Psalm 67</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-67-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> God be merciful unto us, and bless us; and cause his face to shine upon us; Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-67-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> That thy way may be known upon earth, thy saving health among all nations.
         </p><p id="psalms-67-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Let the people praise thee, O God; let all the people praise thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-67-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> O let the nations be glad and sing for joy: for thou shalt judge the people righteously, and govern the nations upon earth. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-67-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Let the people praise thee, O God; let all the people praise thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-67-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Then shall the earth yield her increase; and God, even our own God, shall bless us.
         </p><p id="psalms-67-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> God shall bless us; and all the ends of the earth shall fear him.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-68">Psalm 68</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-68-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Let God arise, let his enemies be scattered: let them also that hate him flee before him.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> As smoke is driven away, so drive them away: as wax melteth before the fire, so let the wicked perish at the presence of God.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> But let the righteous be glad; let them rejoice before God: yea, let them exceedingly rejoice.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Sing unto God, sing praises to his name: extol him that rideth upon the heavens by his name JAH, and rejoice before him.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> A father of the fatherless, and a judge of the widows, is God in his holy habitation.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> God setteth the solitary in families: he bringeth out those which are bound with chains: but the rebellious dwell in a dry land.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> O God, when thou wentest forth before thy people, when thou didst march through the wilderness; Selah:
         </p><p id="psalms-68-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> The earth shook, the heavens also dropped at the presence of God: even Sinai itself was moved at the presence of God, the God of Israel.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Thou, O God, didst send a plentiful rain, whereby thou didst confirm thine inheritance, when it was weary.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Thy congregation hath dwelt therein: thou, O God, hast prepared of thy goodness for the poor.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> The Lord gave the word: great was the company of those that published it.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Kings of armies did flee apace: and she that tarried at home divided the spoil.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Though ye have lien among the pots, yet shall ye be as the wings of a dove covered with silver, and her feathers with yellow gold.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> When the Almighty scattered kings in it, it was white as snow in Salmon.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> The hill of God is as the hill of Bashan; an high hill as the hill of Bashan.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Why leap ye, ye high hills? this is the hill which God desireth to dwell in; yea, the LORD will dwell in it for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> The chariots of God are twenty thousand, even thousands of angels: the Lord is among them, as in Sinai, in the holy place.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Thou hast ascended on high, thou hast led captivity captive: thou hast received gifts for men; yea, for the rebellious also, that the LORD God might dwell among them.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Blessed be the Lord, who daily loadeth us with benefits, even the God of our salvation. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> He that is our God is the God of salvation; and unto GOD the Lord belong the issues from death.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> But God shall wound the head of his enemies, and the hairy scalp of such an one as goeth on still in his trespasses.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> The Lord said, I will bring again from Bashan, I will bring my people again from the depths of the sea:
         </p><p id="psalms-68-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> That thy foot may be dipped in the blood of thine enemies, and the tongue of thy dogs in the same.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> They have seen thy goings, O God; even the goings of my God, my King, in the sanctuary.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> The singers went before, the players on instruments followed after; among them were the damsels playing with timbrels.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> Bless ye God in the congregations, even the Lord, from the fountain of Israel.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> There is little Benjamin with their ruler, the princes of Judah and their council, the princes of Zebulun, and the princes of Naphtali.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> Thy God hath commanded thy strength: strengthen, O God, that which thou hast wrought for us.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> Because of thy temple at Jerusalem shall kings bring presents unto thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> Rebuke the company of spearmen, the multitude of the bulls, with the calves of the people, till every one submit himself with pieces of silver: scatter thou the people that delight in war.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-31"><span class="num-verse-rw">31</span> Princes shall come out of Egypt; Ethiopia shall soon stretch out her hands unto God.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-32"><span class="num-verse-rw">32</span> Sing unto God, ye kingdoms of the earth; O sing praises unto the Lord; Selah:
         </p><p id="psalms-68-33"><span class="num-verse-rw">33</span> To him that rideth upon the heavens of heavens, which were of old; lo, he doth send out his voice, and that a mighty voice.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-34"><span class="num-verse-rw">34</span> Ascribe ye strength unto God: his excellency is over Israel, and his strength is in the clouds.
         </p><p id="psalms-68-35"><span class="num-verse-rw">35</span> O God, thou art terrible out of thy holy places: the God of Israel is he that giveth strength and power unto his people. Blessed be God.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-69">Psalm 69</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-69-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Save me, O God; for the waters are come in unto my soul.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> I sink in deep mire, where there is no standing: I am come into deep waters, where the floods overflow me.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> I am weary of my crying: my throat is dried: mine eyes fail while I wait for my God.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> They that hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of mine head: they that would destroy me, being mine enemies wrongfully, are mighty: then I restored that which I took not away.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> O God, thou knowest my foolishness; and my sins are not hid from thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Let not them that wait on thee, O Lord GOD of hosts, be ashamed for my sake: let not those that seek thee be confounded for my sake, O God of Israel.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Because for thy sake I have borne reproach; shame hath covered my face.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> I am become a stranger unto my brethren, and an alien unto my mother's children.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> For the zeal of thine house hath eaten me up; and the reproaches of them that reproached thee are fallen upon me.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> When I wept, and chastened my soul with fasting, that was to my reproach.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> I made sackcloth also my garment; and I became a proverb to them.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> They that sit in the gate speak against me; and I was the song of the drunkards.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> But as for me, my prayer is unto thee, O LORD, in an acceptable time: O God, in the multitude of thy mercy hear me, in the truth of thy salvation.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Deliver me out of the mire, and let me not sink: let me be delivered from them that hate me, and out of the deep waters.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Let not the waterflood overflow me, neither let the deep swallow me up, and let not the pit shut her mouth upon me.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Hear me, O LORD; for thy lovingkindness is good: turn unto me according to the multitude of thy tender mercies.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> And hide not thy face from thy servant; for I am in trouble: hear me speedily.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Draw nigh unto my soul, and redeem it: deliver me because of mine enemies.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Thou hast known my reproach, and my shame, and my dishonour: mine adversaries are all before thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Reproach hath broken my heart; and I am full of heaviness: and I looked for some to take pity, but there was none; and for comforters, but I found none.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> They gave me also gall for my meat; and in my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> Let their table become a snare before them: and that which should have been for their welfare, let it become a trap.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> Let their eyes be darkened, that they see not; and make their loins continually to shake.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> Pour out thine indignation upon them, and let thy wrathful anger take hold of them.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> Let their habitation be desolate; and let none dwell in their tents.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> For they persecute him whom thou hast smitten; and they talk to the grief of those whom thou hast wounded.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> Add iniquity unto their iniquity: and let them not come into thy righteousness.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> Let them be blotted out of the book of the living, and not be written with the righteous.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> But I am poor and sorrowful: let thy salvation, O God, set me up on high.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> I will praise the name of God with a song, and will magnify him with thanksgiving.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-31"><span class="num-verse-rw">31</span> This also shall please the LORD better than an ox or bullock that hath horns and hoofs.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-32"><span class="num-verse-rw">32</span> The humble shall see this, and be glad: and your heart shall live that seek God.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-33"><span class="num-verse-rw">33</span> For the LORD heareth the poor, and despiseth not his prisoners.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-34"><span class="num-verse-rw">34</span> Let the heaven and earth praise him, the seas, and every thing that moveth therein.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-35"><span class="num-verse-rw">35</span> For God will save Zion, and will build the cities of Judah: that they may dwell there, and have it in possession.
         </p><p id="psalms-69-36"><span class="num-verse-rw">36</span> The seed also of his servants shall inherit it: and they that love his name shall dwell therein.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-70">Psalm 70</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-70-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Make haste, O God, to deliver me; make haste to help me, O Lord.
         </p><p id="psalms-70-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Let them be ashamed and confounded that seek after my soul: let them be turned backward, and put to confusion, that desire my hurt.
         </p><p id="psalms-70-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Let them be turned back for a reward of their shame that say, Aha, aha.
         </p><p id="psalms-70-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Let all those that seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee: and let such as love thy salvation say continually, Let God be magnified.
         </p><p id="psalms-70-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> But I am poor and needy: make haste unto me, O God: thou art my help and my deliverer; O LORD, make no tarrying.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-71">Psalm 71</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-71-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> In thee, O LORD, do I put my trust: let me never be put to confusion.
         </p><p id="psalms-71-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Deliver me in thy righteousness, and cause me to escape: incline thine ear unto me, and save me.
         </p><p id="psalms-71-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Be thou my strong habitation, whereunto I may continually resort: thou hast given commandment to save me; for thou art my rock and my fortress.
         </p><p id="psalms-71-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked, out of the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man.
         </p><p id="psalms-71-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> For thou art my hope, O Lord GOD: thou art my trust from my youth.
         </p><p id="psalms-71-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> By thee have I been holden up from the womb: thou art he that took me out of my mother's bowels: my praise shall be continually of thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-71-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> I am as a wonder unto many; but thou art my strong refuge.
         </p><p id="psalms-71-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Let my mouth be filled with thy praise and with thy honour all the day.
         </p><p id="psalms-71-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Cast me not off in the time of old age; forsake me not when my strength faileth.
         </p><p id="psalms-71-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> For mine enemies speak against me; and they that lay wait for my soul take counsel together,
         </p><p id="psalms-71-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Saying, God hath forsaken him: persecute and take him; for there is none to deliver him.
         </p><p id="psalms-71-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> O God, be not far from me: O my God, make haste for my help.
         </p><p id="psalms-71-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Let them be confounded and consumed that are adversaries to my soul; let them be covered with reproach and dishonour that seek my hurt.
         </p><p id="psalms-71-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> But I will hope continually, and will yet praise thee more and more.
         </p><p id="psalms-71-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> My mouth shall shew forth thy righteousness and thy salvation all the day; for I know not the numbers thereof.
         </p><p id="psalms-71-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> I will go in the strength of the Lord GOD: I will make mention of thy righteousness, even of thine only.
         </p><p id="psalms-71-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> O God, thou hast taught me from my youth: and hitherto have I declared thy wondrous works.
         </p><p id="psalms-71-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Now also when I am old and greyheaded, O God, forsake me not; until I have shewed thy strength unto this generation, and thy power to every one that is to come.
         </p><p id="psalms-71-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Thy righteousness also, O God, is very high, who hast done great things: O God, who is like unto thee!
         </p><p id="psalms-71-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Thou, which hast shewed me great and sore troubles, shalt quicken me again, and shalt bring me up again from the depths of the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-71-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> Thou shalt increase my greatness, and comfort me on every side.
         </p><p id="psalms-71-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> I will also praise thee with the psaltery, even thy truth, O my God: unto thee will I sing with the harp, O thou Holy One of Israel.
         </p><p id="psalms-71-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> My lips shall greatly rejoice when I sing unto thee; and my soul, which thou hast redeemed.
         </p><p id="psalms-71-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> My tongue also shall talk of thy righteousness all the day long: for they are confounded, for they are brought unto shame, that seek my hurt.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-72">Psalm 72</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-72-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Give the king thy judgments, O God, and thy righteousness unto the king's son.
         </p><p id="psalms-72-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> He shall judge thy people with righteousness, and thy poor with judgment.
         </p><p id="psalms-72-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> The mountains shall bring peace to the people, and the little hills, by righteousness.
         </p><p id="psalms-72-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> He shall judge the poor of the people, he shall save the children of the needy, and shall break in pieces the oppressor.
         </p><p id="psalms-72-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> They shall fear thee as long as the sun and moon endure, throughout all generations.
         </p><p id="psalms-72-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> He shall come down like rain upon the mown grass: as showers that water the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-72-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> In his days shall the righteous flourish; and abundance of peace so long as the moon endureth.
         </p><p id="psalms-72-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> He shall have dominion also from sea to sea, and from the river unto the ends of the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-72-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> They that dwell in the wilderness shall bow before him; and his enemies shall lick the dust.
         </p><p id="psalms-72-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> The kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall bring presents: the kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer gifts.
         </p><p id="psalms-72-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Yea, all kings shall fall down before him: all nations shall serve him.
         </p><p id="psalms-72-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> For he shall deliver the needy when he crieth; the poor also, and him that hath no helper.
         </p><p id="psalms-72-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> He shall spare the poor and needy, and shall save the souls of the needy.
         </p><p id="psalms-72-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> He shall redeem their soul from deceit and violence: and precious shall their blood be in his sight.
         </p><p id="psalms-72-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> And he shall live, and to him shall be given of the gold of Sheba: prayer also shall be made for him continually; and daily shall he be praised.
         </p><p id="psalms-72-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> There shall be an handful of corn in the earth upon the top of the mountains; the fruit thereof shall shake like Lebanon: and they of the city shall flourish like grass of the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-72-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> His name shall endure for ever: his name shall be continued as long as the sun: and men shall be blessed in him: all nations shall call him blessed.
         </p><p id="psalms-72-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Blessed be the LORD God, the God of Israel, who only doeth wondrous things.
         </p><p id="psalms-72-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> And blessed be his glorious name for ever: and let the whole earth be filled with his glory; Amen, and Amen.
         </p><p id="psalms-72-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> The prayers of David the son of Jesse are ended.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-73">Psalm 73</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-73-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Truly God is good to Israel, even to such as are of a clean heart.
         </p><p id="psalms-73-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> But as for me, my feet were almost gone; my steps had well nigh slipped.
         </p><p id="psalms-73-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> For I was envious at the foolish, when I saw the prosperity of the wicked.
         </p><p id="psalms-73-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> For there are no bands in their death: but their strength is firm.
         </p><p id="psalms-73-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> They are not in trouble as other men; neither are they plagued like other men.
         </p><p id="psalms-73-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Therefore pride compasseth them about as a chain; violence covereth them as a garment.
         </p><p id="psalms-73-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Their eyes stand out with fatness: they have more than heart could wish.
         </p><p id="psalms-73-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> They are corrupt, and speak wickedly concerning oppression: they speak loftily.
         </p><p id="psalms-73-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> They set their mouth against the heavens, and their tongue walketh through the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-73-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Therefore his people return hither: and waters of a full cup are wrung out to them.
         </p><p id="psalms-73-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> And they say, How doth God know? and is there knowledge in the most High?
         </p><p id="psalms-73-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Behold, these are the ungodly, who prosper in the world; they increase in riches.
         </p><p id="psalms-73-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Verily I have cleansed my heart in vain, and washed my hands in innocency.
         </p><p id="psalms-73-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> For all the day long have I been plagued, and chastened every morning.
         </p><p id="psalms-73-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> If I say, I will speak thus; behold, I should offend against the generation of thy children.
         </p><p id="psalms-73-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> When I thought to know this, it was too painful for me;
         </p><p id="psalms-73-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Until I went into the sanctuary of God; then understood I their end.
         </p><p id="psalms-73-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Surely thou didst set them in slippery places: thou castedst them down into destruction.
         </p><p id="psalms-73-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> How are they brought into desolation, as in a moment! they are utterly consumed with terrors.
         </p><p id="psalms-73-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> As a dream when one awaketh; so, O Lord, when thou awakest, thou shalt despise their image.
         </p><p id="psalms-73-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> Thus my heart was grieved, and I was pricked in my reins.
         </p><p id="psalms-73-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> So foolish was I, and ignorant: I was as a beast before thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-73-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> Nevertheless I am continually with thee: thou hast holden me by my right hand.
         </p><p id="psalms-73-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel, and afterward receive me to glory.
         </p><p id="psalms-73-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> Whom have I in heaven but thee? and there is none upon earth that I desire beside thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-73-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> My flesh and my heart faileth: but God is the strength of my heart, and my portion for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-73-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> For, lo, they that are far from thee shall perish: thou hast destroyed all them that go a whoring from thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-73-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> But it is good for me to draw near to God: I have put my trust in the Lord GOD, that I may declare all thy works.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-74">Psalm 74</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-74-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> O God, why hast thou cast us off for ever? why doth thine anger smoke against the sheep of thy pasture?
         </p><p id="psalms-74-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Remember thy congregation, which thou hast purchased of old; the rod of thine inheritance, which thou hast redeemed; this mount Zion, wherein thou hast dwelt.
         </p><p id="psalms-74-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Lift up thy feet unto the perpetual desolations; even all that the enemy hath done wickedly in the sanctuary.
         </p><p id="psalms-74-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Thine enemies roar in the midst of thy congregations; they set up their ensigns for signs.
         </p><p id="psalms-74-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> A man was famous according as he had lifted up axes upon the thick trees.
         </p><p id="psalms-74-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> But now they break down the carved work thereof at once with axes and hammers.
         </p><p id="psalms-74-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> They have cast fire into thy sanctuary, they have defiled by casting down the dwelling place of thy name to the ground.
         </p><p id="psalms-74-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> They said in their hearts, Let us destroy them together: they have burned up all the synagogues of God in the land.
         </p><p id="psalms-74-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> We see not our signs: there is no more any prophet: neither is there among us any that knoweth how long.
         </p><p id="psalms-74-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> O God, how long shall the adversary reproach? shall the enemy blaspheme thy name for ever?
         </p><p id="psalms-74-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Why withdrawest thou thy hand, even thy right hand? pluck it out of thy bosom.
         </p><p id="psalms-74-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> For God is my King of old, working salvation in the midst of the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-74-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Thou didst divide the sea by thy strength: thou brakest the heads of the dragons in the waters.
         </p><p id="psalms-74-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Thou brakest the heads of leviathan in pieces, and gavest him to be meat to the people inhabiting the wilderness.
         </p><p id="psalms-74-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Thou didst cleave the fountain and the flood: thou driedst up mighty rivers.
         </p><p id="psalms-74-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> The day is thine, the night also is thine: thou hast prepared the light and the sun.
         </p><p id="psalms-74-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Thou hast set all the borders of the earth: thou hast made summer and winter.
         </p><p id="psalms-74-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Remember this, that the enemy hath reproached, O LORD, and that the foolish people have blasphemed thy name.
         </p><p id="psalms-74-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> O deliver not the soul of thy turtledove unto the multitude of the wicked: forget not the congregation of thy poor for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-74-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Have respect unto the covenant: for the dark places of the earth are full of the habitations of cruelty.
         </p><p id="psalms-74-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> O let not the oppressed return ashamed: let the poor and needy praise thy name.
         </p><p id="psalms-74-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> Arise, O God, plead thine own cause: remember how the foolish man reproacheth thee daily.
         </p><p id="psalms-74-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> Forget not the voice of thine enemies: the tumult of those that rise up against thee increaseth continually.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-75">Psalm 75</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-75-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Unto thee, O God, do we give thanks, unto thee do we give thanks: for that thy name is near thy wondrous works declare.
         </p><p id="psalms-75-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> When I shall receive the congregation I will judge uprightly.
         </p><p id="psalms-75-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> The earth and all the inhabitants thereof are dissolved: I bear up the pillars of it. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-75-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> I said unto the fools, Deal not foolishly: and to the wicked, Lift not up the horn:
         </p><p id="psalms-75-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Lift not up your horn on high: speak not with a stiff neck.
         </p><p id="psalms-75-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> For promotion cometh neither from the east, nor from the west, nor from the south.
         </p><p id="psalms-75-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> But God is the judge: he putteth down one, and setteth up another.
         </p><p id="psalms-75-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> For in the hand of the LORD there is a cup, and the wine is red; it is full of mixture; and he poureth out of the same: but the dregs thereof, all the wicked of the earth shall wring them out, and drink them.
         </p><p id="psalms-75-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> But I will declare for ever; I will sing praises to the God of Jacob.
         </p><p id="psalms-75-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> All the horns of the wicked also will I cut off; but the horns of the righteous shall be exalted.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-76">Psalm 76</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-76-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> In Judah is God known: his name is great in Israel.
         </p><p id="psalms-76-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> In Salem also is his tabernacle, and his dwelling place in Zion.
         </p><p id="psalms-76-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> There brake he the arrows of the bow, the shield, and the sword, and the battle. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-76-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Thou art more glorious and excellent than the mountains of prey.
         </p><p id="psalms-76-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> The stouthearted are spoiled, they have slept their sleep: and none of the men of might have found their hands.
         </p><p id="psalms-76-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> At thy rebuke, O God of Jacob, both the chariot and horse are cast into a dead sleep.
         </p><p id="psalms-76-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Thou, even thou, art to be feared: and who may stand in thy sight when once thou art angry?
         </p><p id="psalms-76-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Thou didst cause judgment to be heard from heaven; the earth feared, and was still,
         </p><p id="psalms-76-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> When God arose to judgment, to save all the meek of the earth. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-76-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Surely the wrath of man shall praise thee: the remainder of wrath shalt thou restrain.
         </p><p id="psalms-76-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Vow, and pay unto the LORD your God: let all that be round about him bring presents unto him that ought to be feared.
         </p><p id="psalms-76-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> He shall cut off the spirit of princes: he is terrible to the kings of the earth.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-77">Psalm 77</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-77-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> I cried unto God with my voice, even unto God with my voice; and he gave ear unto me.
         </p><p id="psalms-77-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord: my sore ran in the night, and ceased not: my soul refused to be comforted.
         </p><p id="psalms-77-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> I remembered God, and was troubled: I complained, and my spirit was overwhelmed. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-77-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Thou holdest mine eyes waking: I am so troubled that I cannot speak.
         </p><p id="psalms-77-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> I have considered the days of old, the years of ancient times.
         </p><p id="psalms-77-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> I call to remembrance my song in the night: I commune with mine own heart: and my spirit made diligent search.
         </p><p id="psalms-77-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Will the Lord cast off for ever? and will he be favourable no more?
         </p><p id="psalms-77-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Is his mercy clean gone for ever? doth his promise fail for evermore?
         </p><p id="psalms-77-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Hath God forgotten to be gracious? hath he in anger shut up his tender mercies? Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-77-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> And I said, This is my infirmity: but I will remember the years of the right hand of the most High.
         </p><p id="psalms-77-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> I will remember the works of the LORD: surely I will remember thy wonders of old.
         </p><p id="psalms-77-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> I will meditate also of all thy work, and talk of thy doings.
         </p><p id="psalms-77-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Thy way, O God, is in the sanctuary: who is so great a God as our God?
         </p><p id="psalms-77-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Thou art the God that doest wonders: thou hast declared thy strength among the people.
         </p><p id="psalms-77-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Thou hast with thine arm redeemed thy people, the sons of Jacob and Joseph. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-77-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> The waters saw thee, O God, the waters saw thee; they were afraid: the depths also were troubled.
         </p><p id="psalms-77-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> The clouds poured out water: the skies sent out a sound: thine arrows also went abroad.
         </p><p id="psalms-77-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> The voice of thy thunder was in the heaven: the lightnings lightened the world: the earth trembled and shook.
         </p><p id="psalms-77-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Thy way is in the sea, and thy path in the great waters, and thy footsteps are not known.
         </p><p id="psalms-77-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Thou leddest thy people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-78">Psalm 78</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-78-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Give ear, O my people, to my law: incline your ears to the words of my mouth.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> I will open my mouth in a parable: I will utter dark sayings of old:
         </p><p id="psalms-78-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Which we have heard and known, and our fathers have told us.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> We will not hide them from their children, shewing to the generation to come the praises of the LORD, and his strength, and his wonderful works that he hath done.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> For he established a testimony in Jacob, and appointed a law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers, that they should make them known to their children:
         </p><p id="psalms-78-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> That the generation to come might know them, even the children which should be born; who should arise and declare them to their children:
         </p><p id="psalms-78-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> That they might set their hope in God, and not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments:
         </p><p id="psalms-78-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> And might not be as their fathers, a stubborn and rebellious generation; a generation that set not their heart aright, and whose spirit was not stedfast with God.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> The children of Ephraim, being armed, and carrying bows, turned back in the day of battle.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> They kept not the covenant of God, and refused to walk in his law;
         </p><p id="psalms-78-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> And forgat his works, and his wonders that he had shewed them.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Marvellous things did he in the sight of their fathers, in the land of Egypt, in the field of Zoan.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> He divided the sea, and caused them to pass through; and he made the waters to stand as an heap.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> In the daytime also he led them with a cloud, and all the night with a light of fire.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> He clave the rocks in the wilderness, and gave them drink as out of the great depths.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> He brought streams also out of the rock, and caused waters to run down like rivers.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> And they sinned yet more against him by provoking the most High in the wilderness.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> And they tempted God in their heart by asking meat for their lust.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Yea, they spake against God; they said, Can God furnish a table in the wilderness?
         </p><p id="psalms-78-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Behold, he smote the rock, that the waters gushed out, and the streams overflowed; can he give bread also? can he provide flesh for his people?
         </p><p id="psalms-78-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> Therefore the LORD heard this, and was wroth: so a fire was kindled against Jacob, and anger also came up against Israel;
         </p><p id="psalms-78-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> Because they believed not in God, and trusted not in his salvation:
         </p><p id="psalms-78-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> Though he had commanded the clouds from above, and opened the doors of heaven,
         </p><p id="psalms-78-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> And had rained down manna upon them to eat, and had given them of the corn of heaven.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> Man did eat angels' food: he sent them meat to the full.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> He caused an east wind to blow in the heaven: and by his power he brought in the south wind.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> He rained flesh also upon them as dust, and feathered fowls like as the sand of the sea:
         </p><p id="psalms-78-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> And he let it fall in the midst of their camp, round about their habitations.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> So they did eat, and were well filled: for he gave them their own desire;
         </p><p id="psalms-78-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> They were not estranged from their lust. But while their meat was yet in their mouths,
         </p><p id="psalms-78-31"><span class="num-verse-rw">31</span> The wrath of God came upon them, and slew the fattest of them, and smote down the chosen men of Israel.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-32"><span class="num-verse-rw">32</span> For all this they sinned still, and believed not for his wondrous works.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-33"><span class="num-verse-rw">33</span> Therefore their days did he consume in vanity, and their years in trouble.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-34"><span class="num-verse-rw">34</span> When he slew them, then they sought him: and they returned and enquired early after God.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-35"><span class="num-verse-rw">35</span> And they remembered that God was their rock, and the high God their redeemer.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-36"><span class="num-verse-rw">36</span> Nevertheless they did flatter him with their mouth, and they lied unto him with their tongues.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-37"><span class="num-verse-rw">37</span> For their heart was not right with him, neither were they stedfast in his covenant.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-38"><span class="num-verse-rw">38</span> But he, being full of compassion, forgave their iniquity, and destroyed them not: yea, many a time turned he his anger away, and did not stir up all his wrath.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-39"><span class="num-verse-rw">39</span> For he remembered that they were but flesh; a wind that passeth away, and cometh not again.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-40"><span class="num-verse-rw">40</span> How oft did they provoke him in the wilderness, and grieve him in the desert!
         </p><p id="psalms-78-41"><span class="num-verse-rw">41</span> Yea, they turned back and tempted God, and limited the Holy One of Israel.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-42"><span class="num-verse-rw">42</span> They remembered not his hand, nor the day when he delivered them from the enemy.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-43"><span class="num-verse-rw">43</span> How he had wrought his signs in Egypt, and his wonders in the field of Zoan.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-44"><span class="num-verse-rw">44</span> And had turned their rivers into blood; and their floods, that they could not drink.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-45"><span class="num-verse-rw">45</span> He sent divers sorts of flies among them, which devoured them; and frogs, which destroyed them.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-46"><span class="num-verse-rw">46</span> He gave also their increase unto the caterpiller, and their labour unto the locust.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-47"><span class="num-verse-rw">47</span> He destroyed their vines with hail, and their sycomore trees with frost.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-48"><span class="num-verse-rw">48</span> He gave up their cattle also to the hail, and their flocks to hot thunderbolts.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-49"><span class="num-verse-rw">49</span> He cast upon them the fierceness of his anger, wrath, and indignation, and trouble, by sending evil angels among them.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-50"><span class="num-verse-rw">50</span> He made a way to his anger; he spared not their soul from death, but gave their life over to the pestilence;
         </p><p id="psalms-78-51"><span class="num-verse-rw">51</span> And smote all the firstborn in Egypt; the chief of their strength in the tabernacles of Ham:
         </p><p id="psalms-78-52"><span class="num-verse-rw">52</span> But made his own people to go forth like sheep, and guided them in the wilderness like a flock.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-53"><span class="num-verse-rw">53</span> And he led them on safely, so that they feared not: but the sea overwhelmed their enemies.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-54"><span class="num-verse-rw">54</span> And he brought them to the border of his sanctuary, even to this mountain, which his right hand had purchased.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-55"><span class="num-verse-rw">55</span> He cast out the heathen also before them, and divided them an inheritance by line, and made the tribes of Israel to dwell in their tents.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-56"><span class="num-verse-rw">56</span> Yet they tempted and provoked the most high God, and kept not his testimonies:
         </p><p id="psalms-78-57"><span class="num-verse-rw">57</span> But turned back, and dealt unfaithfully like their fathers: they were turned aside like a deceitful bow.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-58"><span class="num-verse-rw">58</span> For they provoked him to anger with their high places, and moved him to jealousy with their graven images.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-59"><span class="num-verse-rw">59</span> When God heard this, he was wroth, and greatly abhorred Israel:
         </p><p id="psalms-78-60"><span class="num-verse-rw">60</span> So that he forsook the tabernacle of Shiloh, the tent which he placed among men;
         </p><p id="psalms-78-61"><span class="num-verse-rw">61</span> And delivered his strength into captivity, and his glory into the enemy's hand.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-62"><span class="num-verse-rw">62</span> He gave his people over also unto the sword; and was wroth with his inheritance.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-63"><span class="num-verse-rw">63</span> The fire consumed their young men; and their maidens were not given to marriage.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-64"><span class="num-verse-rw">64</span> Their priests fell by the sword; and their widows made no lamentation.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-65"><span class="num-verse-rw">65</span> Then the LORD awaked as one out of sleep, and like a mighty man that shouteth by reason of wine.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-66"><span class="num-verse-rw">66</span> And he smote his enemies in the hinder parts: he put them to a perpetual reproach.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-67"><span class="num-verse-rw">67</span> Moreover he refused the tabernacle of Joseph, and chose not the tribe of Ephraim:
         </p><p id="psalms-78-68"><span class="num-verse-rw">68</span> But chose the tribe of Judah, the mount Zion which he loved.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-69"><span class="num-verse-rw">69</span> And he built his sanctuary like high palaces, like the earth which he hath established for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-70"><span class="num-verse-rw">70</span> He chose David also his servant, and took him from the sheepfolds:
         </p><p id="psalms-78-71"><span class="num-verse-rw">71</span> From following the ewes great with young he brought him to feed Jacob his people, and Israel his inheritance.
         </p><p id="psalms-78-72"><span class="num-verse-rw">72</span> So he fed them according to the integrity of his heart; and guided them by the skilfulness of his hands.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-79">Psalm 79</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-79-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> O God, the heathen are come into thine inheritance; thy holy temple have they defiled; they have laid Jerusalem on heaps.
         </p><p id="psalms-79-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> The dead bodies of thy servants have they given to be meat unto the fowls of the heaven, the flesh of thy saints unto the beasts of the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-79-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Their blood have they shed like water round about Jerusalem; and there was none to bury them.
         </p><p id="psalms-79-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> We are become a reproach to our neighbours, a scorn and derision to them that are round about us.
         </p><p id="psalms-79-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> How long, LORD? wilt thou be angry for ever? shall thy jealousy burn like fire?
         </p><p id="psalms-79-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Pour out thy wrath upon the heathen that have not known thee, and upon the kingdoms that have not called upon thy name.
         </p><p id="psalms-79-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> For they have devoured Jacob, and laid waste his dwelling place.
         </p><p id="psalms-79-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> O remember not against us former iniquities: let thy tender mercies speedily prevent us: for we are brought very low.
         </p><p id="psalms-79-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of thy name: and deliver us, and purge away our sins, for thy name's sake.
         </p><p id="psalms-79-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Wherefore should the heathen say, Where is their God? let him be known among the heathen in our sight by the revenging of the blood of thy servants which is shed.
         </p><p id="psalms-79-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Let the sighing of the prisoner come before thee; according to the greatness of thy power preserve thou those that are appointed to die;
         </p><p id="psalms-79-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> And render unto our neighbours sevenfold into their bosom their reproach, wherewith they have reproached thee, O Lord.
         </p><p id="psalms-79-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> So we thy people and sheep of thy pasture will give thee thanks for ever: we will shew forth thy praise to all generations.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-80">Psalm 80</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-80-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, thou that leadest Joseph like a flock; thou that dwellest between the cherubims, shine forth.
         </p><p id="psalms-80-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh stir up thy strength, and come and save us.
         </p><p id="psalms-80-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Turn us again, O God, and cause thy face to shine; and we shall be saved.
         </p><p id="psalms-80-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> O LORD God of hosts, how long wilt thou be angry against the prayer of thy people?
         </p><p id="psalms-80-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Thou feedest them with the bread of tears; and givest them tears to drink in great measure.
         </p><p id="psalms-80-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Thou makest us a strife unto our neighbours: and our enemies laugh among themselves.
         </p><p id="psalms-80-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Turn us again, O God of hosts, and cause thy face to shine; and we shall be saved.
         </p><p id="psalms-80-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Thou hast brought a vine out of Egypt: thou hast cast out the heathen, and planted it.
         </p><p id="psalms-80-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Thou preparedst room before it, and didst cause it to take deep root, and it filled the land.
         </p><p id="psalms-80-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> The hills were covered with the shadow of it, and the boughs thereof were like the goodly cedars.
         </p><p id="psalms-80-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> She sent out her boughs unto the sea, and her branches unto the river.
         </p><p id="psalms-80-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Why hast thou then broken down her hedges, so that all they which pass by the way do pluck her?
         </p><p id="psalms-80-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> The boar out of the wood doth waste it, and the wild beast of the field doth devour it.
         </p><p id="psalms-80-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Return, we beseech thee, O God of hosts: look down from heaven, and behold, and visit this vine;
         </p><p id="psalms-80-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> And the vineyard which thy right hand hath planted, and the branch that thou madest strong for thyself.
         </p><p id="psalms-80-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> It is burned with fire, it is cut down: they perish at the rebuke of thy countenance.
         </p><p id="psalms-80-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Let thy hand be upon the man of thy right hand, upon the son of man whom thou madest strong for thyself.
         </p><p id="psalms-80-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> So will not we go back from thee: quicken us, and we will call upon thy name.
         </p><p id="psalms-80-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Turn us again, O LORD God of hosts, cause thy face to shine; and we shall be saved.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-81">Psalm 81</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-81-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Sing aloud unto God our strength: make a joyful noise unto the God of Jacob.
         </p><p id="psalms-81-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Take a psalm, and bring hither the timbrel, the pleasant harp with the psaltery.
         </p><p id="psalms-81-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Blow up the trumpet in the new moon, in the time appointed, on our solemn feast day.
         </p><p id="psalms-81-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> For this was a statute for Israel, and a law of the God of Jacob.
         </p><p id="psalms-81-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> This he ordained in Joseph for a testimony, when he went out through the land of Egypt: where I heard a language that I understood not.
         </p><p id="psalms-81-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> I removed his shoulder from the burden: his hands were delivered from the pots.
         </p><p id="psalms-81-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Thou calledst in trouble, and I delivered thee; I answered thee in the secret place of thunder: I proved thee at the waters of Meribah. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-81-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Hear, O my people, and I will testify unto thee: O Israel, if thou wilt hearken unto me;
         </p><p id="psalms-81-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> There shall no strange god be in thee; neither shalt thou worship any strange god.
         </p><p id="psalms-81-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> I am the LORD thy God, which brought thee out of the land of Egypt: open thy mouth wide, and I will fill it.
         </p><p id="psalms-81-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> But my people would not hearken to my voice; and Israel would none of me.
         </p><p id="psalms-81-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> So I gave them up unto their own hearts' lust: and they walked in their own counsels.
         </p><p id="psalms-81-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Oh that my people had hearkened unto me, and Israel had walked in my ways!
         </p><p id="psalms-81-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> I should soon have subdued their enemies, and turned my hand against their adversaries.
         </p><p id="psalms-81-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> The haters of the LORD should have submitted themselves unto him: but their time should have endured for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-81-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> He should have fed them also with the finest of the wheat: and with honey out of the rock should I have satisfied thee.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-82">Psalm 82</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-82-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> God standeth in the congregation of the mighty; he judgeth among the gods.
         </p><p id="psalms-82-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> How long will ye judge unjustly, and accept the persons of the wicked? Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-82-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Defend the poor and fatherless: do justice to the afflicted and needy.
         </p><p id="psalms-82-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Deliver the poor and needy: rid them out of the hand of the wicked.
         </p><p id="psalms-82-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> They know not, neither will they understand; they walk on in darkness: all the foundations of the earth are out of course.
         </p><p id="psalms-82-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> I have said, Ye are gods; and all of you are children of the most High.
         </p><p id="psalms-82-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> But ye shall die like men, and fall like one of the princes.
         </p><p id="psalms-82-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Arise, O God, judge the earth: for thou shalt inherit all nations.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-83">Psalm 83</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-83-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Keep not thou silence, O God: hold not thy peace, and be not still, O God.
         </p><p id="psalms-83-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> For, lo, thine enemies make a tumult: and they that hate thee have lifted up the head.
         </p><p id="psalms-83-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> They have taken crafty counsel against thy people, and consulted against thy hidden ones.
         </p><p id="psalms-83-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> They have said, Come, and let us cut them off from being a nation; that the name of Israel may be no more in remembrance.
         </p><p id="psalms-83-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> For they have consulted together with one consent: they are confederate against thee:
         </p><p id="psalms-83-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> The tabernacles of Edom, and the Ishmaelites; of Moab, and the Hagarenes;
         </p><p id="psalms-83-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Gebal, and Ammon, and Amalek; the Philistines with the inhabitants of Tyre;
         </p><p id="psalms-83-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Assur also is joined with them: they have holpen the children of Lot. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-83-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Do unto them as unto the Midianites; as to Sisera, as to Jabin, at the brook of Kison:
         </p><p id="psalms-83-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Which perished at Endor: they became as dung for the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-83-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Make their nobles like Oreb, and like Zeeb: yea, all their princes as Zebah, and as Zalmunna:
         </p><p id="psalms-83-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Who said, Let us take to ourselves the houses of God in possession.
         </p><p id="psalms-83-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> O my God, make them like a wheel; as the stubble before the wind.
         </p><p id="psalms-83-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> As the fire burneth a wood, and as the flame setteth the mountains on fire;
         </p><p id="psalms-83-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> So persecute them with thy tempest, and make them afraid with thy storm.
         </p><p id="psalms-83-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Fill their faces with shame; that they may seek thy name, O LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-83-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Let them be confounded and troubled for ever; yea, let them be put to shame, and perish:
         </p><p id="psalms-83-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> That men may know that thou, whose name alone is JEHOVAH, art the most high over all the earth.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-84">Psalm 84</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-84-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> How amiable are thy tabernacles, O LORD of hosts!
         </p><p id="psalms-84-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> My soul longeth, yea, even fainteth for the courts of the LORD: my heart and my flesh crieth out for the living God.
         </p><p id="psalms-84-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Yea, the sparrow hath found an house, and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young, even thine altars, O LORD of hosts, my King, and my God.
         </p><p id="psalms-84-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Blessed are they that dwell in thy house: they will be still praising thee. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-84-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Blessed is the man whose strength is in thee; in whose heart are the ways of them.
         </p><p id="psalms-84-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Who passing through the valley of Baca make it a well; the rain also filleth the pools.
         </p><p id="psalms-84-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> They go from strength to strength, every one of them in Zion appeareth before God.
         </p><p id="psalms-84-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> O LORD God of hosts, hear my prayer: give ear, O God of Jacob. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-84-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Behold, O God our shield, and look upon the face of thine anointed.
         </p><p id="psalms-84-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> For a day in thy courts is better than a thousand. I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God, than to dwell in the tents of wickedness.
         </p><p id="psalms-84-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> For the LORD God is a sun and shield: the LORD will give grace and glory: no good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly.
         </p><p id="psalms-84-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> O LORD of hosts, blessed is the man that trusteth in thee.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-85">Psalm 85</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-85-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Lord, thou hast been favourable unto thy land: thou hast brought back the captivity of Jacob.
         </p><p id="psalms-85-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Thou hast forgiven the iniquity of thy people, thou hast covered all their sin. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-85-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Thou hast taken away all thy wrath: thou hast turned thyself from the fierceness of thine anger.
         </p><p id="psalms-85-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Turn us, O God of our salvation, and cause thine anger toward us to cease.
         </p><p id="psalms-85-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Wilt thou be angry with us for ever? wilt thou draw out thine anger to all generations?
         </p><p id="psalms-85-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Wilt thou not revive us again: that thy people may rejoice in thee?
         </p><p id="psalms-85-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Shew us thy mercy, O LORD, and grant us thy salvation.
         </p><p id="psalms-85-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> I will hear what God the LORD will speak: for he will speak peace unto his people, and to his saints: but let them not turn again to folly.
         </p><p id="psalms-85-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Surely his salvation is nigh them that fear him; that glory may dwell in our land.
         </p><p id="psalms-85-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Mercy and truth are met together; righteousness and peace have kissed each other.
         </p><p id="psalms-85-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Truth shall spring out of the earth; and righteousness shall look down from heaven.
         </p><p id="psalms-85-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Yea, the LORD shall give that which is good; and our land shall yield her increase.
         </p><p id="psalms-85-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Righteousness shall go before him; and shall set us in the way of his steps.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-86">Psalm 86</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-86-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Bow down thine ear, O LORD, hear me: for I am poor and needy.
         </p><p id="psalms-86-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Preserve my soul; for I am holy: O thou my God, save thy servant that trusteth in thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-86-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Be merciful unto me, O Lord: for I cry unto thee daily.
         </p><p id="psalms-86-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Rejoice the soul of thy servant: for unto thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul.
         </p><p id="psalms-86-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> For thou, Lord, art good, and ready to forgive; and plenteous in mercy unto all them that call upon thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-86-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Give ear, O LORD, unto my prayer; and attend to the voice of my supplications.
         </p><p id="psalms-86-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> In the day of my trouble I will call upon thee: for thou wilt answer me.
         </p><p id="psalms-86-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Among the gods there is none like unto thee, O Lord; neither are there any works like unto thy works.
         </p><p id="psalms-86-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> All nations whom thou hast made shall come and worship before thee, O Lord; and shall glorify thy name.
         </p><p id="psalms-86-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> For thou art great, and doest wondrous things: thou art God alone.
         </p><p id="psalms-86-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Teach me thy way, O LORD; I will walk in thy truth: unite my heart to fear thy name.
         </p><p id="psalms-86-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> I will praise thee, O Lord my God, with all my heart: and I will glorify thy name for evermore.
         </p><p id="psalms-86-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> For great is thy mercy toward me: and thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell.
         </p><p id="psalms-86-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> O God, the proud are risen against me, and the assemblies of violent men have sought after my soul; and have not set thee before them.
         </p><p id="psalms-86-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> But thou, O Lord, art a God full of compassion, and gracious, long suffering, and plenteous in mercy and truth.
         </p><p id="psalms-86-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> O turn unto me, and have mercy upon me; give thy strength unto thy servant, and save the son of thine handmaid.
         </p><p id="psalms-86-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Shew me a token for good; that they which hate me may see it, and be ashamed: because thou, LORD, hast holpen me, and comforted me.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-87">Psalm 87</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-87-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> His foundation is in the holy mountains.
         </p><p id="psalms-87-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> The LORD loveth the gates of Zion more than all the dwellings of Jacob.
         </p><p id="psalms-87-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Glorious things are spoken of thee, O city of God. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-87-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> I will make mention of Rahab and Babylon to them that know me: behold Philistia, and Tyre, with Ethiopia; this man was born there.
         </p><p id="psalms-87-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> And of Zion it shall be said, This and that man was born in her: and the highest himself shall establish her.
         </p><p id="psalms-87-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> The LORD shall count, when he writeth up the people, that this man was born there. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-87-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> As well the singers as the players on instruments shall be there: all my springs are in thee.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-88">Psalm 88</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-88-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> O lord God of my salvation, I have cried day and night before thee:
         </p><p id="psalms-88-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Let my prayer come before thee: incline thine ear unto my cry;
         </p><p id="psalms-88-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> For my soul is full of troubles: and my life draweth nigh unto the grave.
         </p><p id="psalms-88-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> I am counted with them that go down into the pit: I am as a man that hath no strength:
         </p><p id="psalms-88-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Free among the dead, like the slain that lie in the grave, whom thou rememberest no more: and they are cut off from thy hand.
         </p><p id="psalms-88-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Thou hast laid me in the lowest pit, in darkness, in the deeps.
         </p><p id="psalms-88-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Thy wrath lieth hard upon me, and thou hast afflicted me with all thy waves. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-88-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Thou hast put away mine acquaintance far from me; thou hast made me an abomination unto them: I am shut up, and I cannot come forth.
         </p><p id="psalms-88-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Mine eye mourneth by reason of affliction: LORD, I have called daily upon thee, I have stretched out my hands unto thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-88-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Wilt thou shew wonders to the dead? shall the dead arise and praise thee? Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-88-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Shall thy lovingkindness be declared in the grave? or thy faithfulness in destruction?
         </p><p id="psalms-88-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Shall thy wonders be known in the dark? and thy righteousness in the land of forgetfulness?
         </p><p id="psalms-88-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> But unto thee have I cried, O LORD; and in the morning shall my prayer prevent thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-88-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> LORD, why castest thou off my soul? why hidest thou thy face from me?
         </p><p id="psalms-88-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> I am afflicted and ready to die from my youth up: while I suffer thy terrors I am distracted.
         </p><p id="psalms-88-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Thy fierce wrath goeth over me; thy terrors have cut me off.
         </p><p id="psalms-88-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> They came round about me daily like water; they compassed me about together.
         </p><p id="psalms-88-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Lover and friend hast thou put far from me, and mine acquaintance into darkness.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-89">Psalm 89</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-89-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> I will sing of the mercies of the LORD for ever: with my mouth will I make known thy faithfulness to all generations.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> For I have said, Mercy shall be built up for ever: thy faithfulness shalt thou establish in the very heavens.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> I have made a covenant with my chosen, I have sworn unto David my servant,
         </p><p id="psalms-89-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Thy seed will I establish for ever, and build up thy throne to all generations. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> And the heavens shall praise thy wonders, O LORD: thy faithfulness also in the congregation of the saints.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> For who in the heaven can be compared unto the LORD? who among the sons of the mighty can be likened unto the LORD?
         </p><p id="psalms-89-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> God is greatly to be feared in the assembly of the saints, and to be had in reverence of all them that are about him.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> O LORD God of hosts, who is a strong LORD like unto thee? or to thy faithfulness round about thee?
         </p><p id="psalms-89-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Thou rulest the raging of the sea: when the waves thereof arise, thou stillest them.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Thou hast broken Rahab in pieces, as one that is slain; thou hast scattered thine enemies with thy strong arm.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> The heavens are thine, the earth also is thine: as for the world and the fulness thereof, thou hast founded them.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> The north and the south thou hast created them: Tabor and Hermon shall rejoice in thy name.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Thou hast a mighty arm: strong is thy hand, and high is thy right hand.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Justice and judgment are the habitation of thy throne: mercy and truth shall go before thy face.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Blessed is the people that know the joyful sound: they shall walk, O LORD, in the light of thy countenance.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> In thy name shall they rejoice all the day: and in thy righteousness shall they be exalted.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> For thou art the glory of their strength: and in thy favour our horn shall be exalted.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> For the LORD is our defence; and the Holy One of Israel is our king.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Then thou spakest in vision to thy holy one, and saidst, I have laid help upon one that is mighty; I have exalted one chosen out of the people.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> I have found David my servant; with my holy oil have I anointed him:
         </p><p id="psalms-89-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> With whom my hand shall be established: mine arm also shall strengthen him.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> The enemy shall not exact upon him; nor the son of wickedness afflict him.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> And I will beat down his foes before his face, and plague them that hate him.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> But my faithfulness and my mercy shall be with him: and in my name shall his horn be exalted.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> I will set his hand also in the sea, and his right hand in the rivers.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> He shall cry unto me, Thou art my father, my God, and the rock of my salvation.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> Also I will make him my firstborn, higher than the kings of the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> My mercy will I keep for him for evermore, and my covenant shall stand fast with him.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> His seed also will I make to endure for ever, and his throne as the days of heaven.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> If his children forsake my law, and walk not in my judgments;
         </p><p id="psalms-89-31"><span class="num-verse-rw">31</span> If they break my statutes, and keep not my commandments;
         </p><p id="psalms-89-32"><span class="num-verse-rw">32</span> Then will I visit their transgression with the rod, and their iniquity with stripes.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-33"><span class="num-verse-rw">33</span> Nevertheless my lovingkindness will I not utterly take from him, nor suffer my faithfulness to fail.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-34"><span class="num-verse-rw">34</span> My covenant will I not break, nor alter the thing that is gone out of my lips.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-35"><span class="num-verse-rw">35</span> Once have I sworn by my holiness that I will not lie unto David.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-36"><span class="num-verse-rw">36</span> His seed shall endure for ever, and his throne as the sun before me.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-37"><span class="num-verse-rw">37</span> It shall be established for ever as the moon, and as a faithful witness in heaven. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-38"><span class="num-verse-rw">38</span> But thou hast cast off and abhorred, thou hast been wroth with thine anointed.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-39"><span class="num-verse-rw">39</span> Thou hast made void the covenant of thy servant: thou hast profaned his crown by casting it to the ground.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-40"><span class="num-verse-rw">40</span> Thou hast broken down all his hedges; thou hast brought his strong holds to ruin.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-41"><span class="num-verse-rw">41</span> All that pass by the way spoil him: he is a reproach to his neighbours.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-42"><span class="num-verse-rw">42</span> Thou hast set up the right hand of his adversaries; thou hast made all his enemies to rejoice.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-43"><span class="num-verse-rw">43</span> Thou hast also turned the edge of his sword, and hast not made him to stand in the battle.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-44"><span class="num-verse-rw">44</span> Thou hast made his glory to cease, and cast his throne down to the ground.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-45"><span class="num-verse-rw">45</span> The days of his youth hast thou shortened: thou hast covered him with shame. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-46"><span class="num-verse-rw">46</span> How long, LORD? wilt thou hide thyself for ever? shall thy wrath burn like fire?
         </p><p id="psalms-89-47"><span class="num-verse-rw">47</span> Remember how short my time is: wherefore hast thou made all men in vain?
         </p><p id="psalms-89-48"><span class="num-verse-rw">48</span> What man is he that liveth, and shall not see death? shall he deliver his soul from the hand of the grave? Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-49"><span class="num-verse-rw">49</span> Lord, where are thy former lovingkindnesses, which thou swarest unto David in thy truth?
         </p><p id="psalms-89-50"><span class="num-verse-rw">50</span> Remember, Lord, the reproach of thy servants; how I do bear in my bosom the reproach of all the mighty people;
         </p><p id="psalms-89-51"><span class="num-verse-rw">51</span> Wherewith thine enemies have reproached, O LORD; wherewith they have reproached the footsteps of thine anointed.
         </p><p id="psalms-89-52"><span class="num-verse-rw">52</span> Blessed be the LORD for evermore. Amen, and Amen.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-90">Psalm 90</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-90-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations.
         </p><p id="psalms-90-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever thou hadst formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God.
         </p><p id="psalms-90-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Thou turnest man to destruction; and sayest, Return, ye children of men.
         </p><p id="psalms-90-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> For a thousand years in thy sight are but as yesterday when it is past, and as a watch in the night.
         </p><p id="psalms-90-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Thou carriest them away as with a flood; they are as a sleep: in the morning they are like grass which groweth up.
         </p><p id="psalms-90-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> In the morning it flourisheth, and groweth up; in the evening it is cut down, and withereth.
         </p><p id="psalms-90-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> For we are consumed by thine anger, and by thy wrath are we troubled.
         </p><p id="psalms-90-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Thou hast set our iniquities before thee, our secret sins in the light of thy countenance.
         </p><p id="psalms-90-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> For all our days are passed away in thy wrath: we spend our years as a tale that is told.
         </p><p id="psalms-90-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> The days of our years are threescore years and ten; and if by reason of strength they be fourscore years, yet is their strength labour and sorrow; for it is soon cut off, and we fly away.
         </p><p id="psalms-90-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Who knoweth the power of thine anger? even according to thy fear, so is thy wrath.
         </p><p id="psalms-90-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> So teach us to number our days, that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom.
         </p><p id="psalms-90-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Return, O LORD, how long? and let it repent thee concerning thy servants.
         </p><p id="psalms-90-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> O satisfy us early with thy mercy; that we may rejoice and be glad all our days.
         </p><p id="psalms-90-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Make us glad according to the days wherein thou hast afflicted us, and the years wherein we have seen evil.
         </p><p id="psalms-90-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Let thy work appear unto thy servants, and thy glory unto their children.
         </p><p id="psalms-90-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> And let the beauty of the LORD our God be upon us: and establish thou the work of our hands upon us; yea, the work of our hands establish thou it.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-91">Psalm 91</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-91-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> He that dwelleth in the secret place of the most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty.
         </p><p id="psalms-91-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> I will say of the LORD, He is my refuge and my fortress: my God; in him will I trust.
         </p><p id="psalms-91-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Surely he shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler, and from the noisome pestilence.
         </p><p id="psalms-91-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> He shall cover thee with his feathers, and under his wings shalt thou trust: his truth shall be thy shield and buckler.
         </p><p id="psalms-91-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night; nor for the arrow that flieth by day;
         </p><p id="psalms-91-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Nor for the pestilence that walketh in darkness; nor for the destruction that wasteth at noonday.
         </p><p id="psalms-91-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> A thousand shall fall at thy side, and ten thousand at thy right hand; but it shall not come nigh thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-91-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Only with thine eyes shalt thou behold and see the reward of the wicked.
         </p><p id="psalms-91-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Because thou hast made the LORD, which is my refuge, even the most High, thy habitation;
         </p><p id="psalms-91-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> There shall no evil befall thee, neither shall any plague come nigh thy dwelling.
         </p><p id="psalms-91-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> For he shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy ways.
         </p><p id="psalms-91-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> They shall bear thee up in their hands, lest thou dash thy foot against a stone.
         </p><p id="psalms-91-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Thou shalt tread upon the lion and adder: the young lion and the dragon shalt thou trample under feet.
         </p><p id="psalms-91-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Because he hath set his love upon me, therefore will I deliver him: I will set him on high, because he hath known my name.
         </p><p id="psalms-91-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> He shall call upon me, and I will answer him: I will be with him in trouble; I will deliver him, and honour him.
         </p><p id="psalms-91-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> With long life will I satisfy him, and shew him my salvation.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-92">Psalm 92</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-92-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> It is a good thing to give thanks unto the Lord, and to sing praises unto thy name, O most High:
         </p><p id="psalms-92-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> To shew forth thy lovingkindness in the morning, and thy faithfulness every night,
         </p><p id="psalms-92-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Upon an instrument of ten strings, and upon the psaltery; upon the harp with a solemn sound.
         </p><p id="psalms-92-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> For thou, LORD, hast made me glad through thy work: I will triumph in the works of thy hands.
         </p><p id="psalms-92-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> O LORD, how great are thy works! and thy thoughts are very deep.
         </p><p id="psalms-92-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> A brutish man knoweth not; neither doth a fool understand this.
         </p><p id="psalms-92-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> When the wicked spring as the grass, and when all the workers of iniquity do flourish; it is that they shall be destroyed for ever:
         </p><p id="psalms-92-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> But thou, LORD, art most high for evermore.
         </p><p id="psalms-92-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> For, lo, thine enemies, O LORD, for, lo, thine enemies shall perish; all the workers of iniquity shall be scattered.
         </p><p id="psalms-92-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> But my horn shalt thou exalt like the horn of an unicorn: I shall be anointed with fresh oil.
         </p><p id="psalms-92-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Mine eye also shall see my desire on mine enemies, and mine ears shall hear my desire of the wicked that rise up against me.
         </p><p id="psalms-92-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> The righteous shall flourish like the palm tree: he shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon.
         </p><p id="psalms-92-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Those that be planted in the house of the LORD shall flourish in the courts of our God.
         </p><p id="psalms-92-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> They shall still bring forth fruit in old age; they shall be fat and flourishing;
         </p><p id="psalms-92-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> To shew that the LORD is upright: he is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in him.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-93">Psalm 93</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-93-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> The LORD reigneth, he is clothed with majesty; the LORD is clothed with strength, wherewith he hath girded himself: the world also is stablished, that it cannot be moved.
         </p><p id="psalms-93-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Thy throne is established of old: thou art from everlasting.
         </p><p id="psalms-93-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> The floods have lifted up, O LORD, the floods have lifted up their voice; the floods lift up their waves.
         </p><p id="psalms-93-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> The LORD on high is mightier than the noise of many waters, yea, than the mighty waves of the sea.
         </p><p id="psalms-93-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Thy testimonies are very sure: holiness becometh thine house, O LORD, for ever.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-94">Psalm 94</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-94-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> O Lord God, to whom vengeance belongeth; O God, to whom vengeance belongeth, shew thyself.
         </p><p id="psalms-94-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Lift up thyself, thou judge of the earth: render a reward to the proud.
         </p><p id="psalms-94-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> LORD, how long shall the wicked, how long shall the wicked triumph?
         </p><p id="psalms-94-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> How long shall they utter and speak hard things? and all the workers of iniquity boast themselves?
         </p><p id="psalms-94-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> They break in pieces thy people, O LORD, and afflict thine heritage.
         </p><p id="psalms-94-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> They slay the widow and the stranger, and murder the fatherless.
         </p><p id="psalms-94-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Yet they say, The LORD shall not see, neither shall the God of Jacob regard it.
         </p><p id="psalms-94-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Understand, ye brutish among the people: and ye fools, when will ye be wise?
         </p><p id="psalms-94-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> He that planted the ear, shall he not hear? he that formed the eye, shall he not see?
         </p><p id="psalms-94-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> He that chastiseth the heathen, shall not he correct? he that teacheth man knowledge, shall not he know?
         </p><p id="psalms-94-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> The LORD knoweth the thoughts of man, that they are vanity.
         </p><p id="psalms-94-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Blessed is the man whom thou chastenest, O LORD, and teachest him out of thy law;
         </p><p id="psalms-94-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> That thou mayest give him rest from the days of adversity, until the pit be digged for the wicked.
         </p><p id="psalms-94-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> For the LORD will not cast off his people, neither will he forsake his inheritance.
         </p><p id="psalms-94-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> But judgment shall return unto righteousness: and all the upright in heart shall follow it.
         </p><p id="psalms-94-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Who will rise up for me against the evildoers? or who will stand up for me against the workers of iniquity?
         </p><p id="psalms-94-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Unless the LORD had been my help, my soul had almost dwelt in silence.
         </p><p id="psalms-94-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> When I said, My foot slippeth; thy mercy, O LORD, held me up.
         </p><p id="psalms-94-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> In the multitude of my thoughts within me thy comforts delight my soul.
         </p><p id="psalms-94-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Shall the throne of iniquity have fellowship with thee, which frameth mischief by a law?
         </p><p id="psalms-94-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> They gather themselves together against the soul of the righteous, and condemn the innocent blood.
         </p><p id="psalms-94-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> But the LORD is my defence; and my God is the rock of my refuge.
         </p><p id="psalms-94-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> And he shall bring upon them their own iniquity, and shall cut them off in their own wickedness; yea, the LORD our God shall cut them off.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-95">Psalm 95</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-95-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> O come, let us sing unto the LORD: let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation.
         </p><p id="psalms-95-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving, and make a joyful noise unto him with psalms.
         </p><p id="psalms-95-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> For the LORD is a great God, and a great King above all gods.
         </p><p id="psalms-95-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> In his hand are the deep places of the earth: the strength of the hills is his also.
         </p><p id="psalms-95-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> The sea is his, and he made it: and his hands formed the dry land.
         </p><p id="psalms-95-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> O come, let us worship and bow down: let us kneel before the LORD our maker.
         </p><p id="psalms-95-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> For he is our God; and we are the people of his pasture, and the sheep of his hand. To day if ye will hear his voice,
         </p><p id="psalms-95-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Harden not your heart, as in the provocation, and as in the day of temptation in the wilderness:
         </p><p id="psalms-95-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> When your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my work.
         </p><p id="psalms-95-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Forty years long was I grieved with this generation, and said, It is a people that do err in their heart, and they have not known my ways:
         </p><p id="psalms-95-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Unto whom I sware in my wrath that they should not enter into my rest.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-96">Psalm 96</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-96-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> O sing unto the LORD a new song: sing unto the LORD, all the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-96-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Sing unto the LORD, bless his name; shew forth his salvation from day to day.
         </p><p id="psalms-96-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Declare his glory among the heathen, his wonders among all people.
         </p><p id="psalms-96-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> For the LORD is great, and greatly to be praised: he is to be feared above all gods.
         </p><p id="psalms-96-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> For all the gods of the nations are idols: but the LORD made the heavens.
         </p><p id="psalms-96-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Honour and majesty are before him: strength and beauty are in his sanctuary.
         </p><p id="psalms-96-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Give unto the LORD, O ye kindreds of the people, give unto the LORD glory and strength.
         </p><p id="psalms-96-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Give unto the LORD the glory due unto his name: bring an offering, and come into his courts.
         </p><p id="psalms-96-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> O worship the LORD in the beauty of holiness: fear before him, all the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-96-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Say among the heathen that the LORD reigneth: the world also shall be established that it shall not be moved: he shall judge the people righteously.
         </p><p id="psalms-96-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad; let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof.
         </p><p id="psalms-96-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Let the field be joyful, and all that is therein: then shall all the trees of the wood rejoice
         </p><p id="psalms-96-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Before the LORD: for he cometh, for he cometh to judge the earth: he shall judge the world with righteousness, and the people with his truth.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-97">Psalm 97</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-97-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> The LORD reigneth; let the earth rejoice; let the multitude of isles be glad thereof.
         </p><p id="psalms-97-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Clouds and darkness are round about him: righteousness and judgment are the habitation of his throne.
         </p><p id="psalms-97-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> A fire goeth before him, and burneth up his enemies round about.
         </p><p id="psalms-97-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> His lightnings enlightened the world: the earth saw, and trembled.
         </p><p id="psalms-97-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> The hills melted like wax at the presence of the LORD, at the presence of the Lord of the whole earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-97-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> The heavens declare his righteousness, and all the people see his glory.
         </p><p id="psalms-97-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Confounded be all they that serve graven images, that boast themselves of idols: worship him, all ye gods.
         </p><p id="psalms-97-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Zion heard, and was glad; and the daughters of Judah rejoiced because of thy judgments, O LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-97-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> For thou, LORD, art high above all the earth: thou art exalted far above all gods.
         </p><p id="psalms-97-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Ye that love the LORD, hate evil: he preserveth the souls of his saints; he delivereth them out of the hand of the wicked.
         </p><p id="psalms-97-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Light is sown for the righteous, and gladness for the upright in heart.
         </p><p id="psalms-97-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Rejoice in the LORD, ye righteous; and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-98">Psalm 98</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-98-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> O sing unto the LORD a new song; for he hath done marvellous things: his right hand, and his holy arm, hath gotten him the victory.
         </p><p id="psalms-98-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> The LORD hath made known his salvation: his righteousness hath he openly shewed in the sight of the heathen.
         </p><p id="psalms-98-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> He hath remembered his mercy and his truth toward the house of Israel: all the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God.
         </p><p id="psalms-98-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Make a joyful noise unto the LORD, all the earth: make a loud noise, and rejoice, and sing praise.
         </p><p id="psalms-98-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Sing unto the LORD with the harp; with the harp, and the voice of a psalm.
         </p><p id="psalms-98-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> With trumpets and sound of cornet make a joyful noise before the LORD, the King.
         </p><p id="psalms-98-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof; the world, and they that dwell therein.
         </p><p id="psalms-98-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Let the floods clap their hands: let the hills be joyful together
         </p><p id="psalms-98-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Before the LORD; for he cometh to judge the earth: with righteousness shall he judge the world, and the people with equity.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-99">Psalm 99</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-99-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> The LORD reigneth; let the people tremble: he sitteth between the cherubims; let the earth be moved.
         </p><p id="psalms-99-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> The LORD is great in Zion; and he is high above all the people.
         </p><p id="psalms-99-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Let them praise thy great and terrible name; for it is holy.
         </p><p id="psalms-99-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> The king's strength also loveth judgment; thou dost establish equity, thou executest judgment and righteousness in Jacob.
         </p><p id="psalms-99-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Exalt ye the LORD our God, and worship at his footstool; for he is holy.
         </p><p id="psalms-99-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Moses and Aaron among his priests, and Samuel among them that call upon his name; they called upon the LORD, and he answered them.
         </p><p id="psalms-99-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> He spake unto them in the cloudy pillar: they kept his testimonies, and the ordinance that he gave them.
         </p><p id="psalms-99-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Thou answeredst them, O LORD our God: thou wast a God that forgavest them, though thou tookest vengeance of their inventions.
         </p><p id="psalms-99-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Exalt the LORD our God, and worship at his holy hill; for the LORD our God is holy.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-100">Psalm 100</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-100-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Make a joyful noise unto the LORD, all ye lands.
         </p><p id="psalms-100-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Serve the LORD with gladness: come before his presence with singing.
         </p><p id="psalms-100-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Know ye that the LORD he is God: it is he that hath made us, and not we ourselves; we are his people, and the sheep of his pasture.
         </p><p id="psalms-100-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and into his courts with praise: be thankful unto him, and bless his name.
         </p><p id="psalms-100-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> For the LORD is good; his mercy is everlasting; and his truth endureth to all generations.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-101">Psalm 101</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-101-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> I will sing of mercy and judgment: unto thee, O LORD, will I sing.
         </p><p id="psalms-101-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> I will behave myself wisely in a perfect way. O when wilt thou come unto me? I will walk within my house with a perfect heart.
         </p><p id="psalms-101-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes: I hate the work of them that turn aside; it shall not cleave to me.
         </p><p id="psalms-101-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> A froward heart shall depart from me: I will not know a wicked person.
         </p><p id="psalms-101-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Whoso privily slandereth his neighbour, him will I cut off: him that hath an high look and a proud heart will not I suffer.
         </p><p id="psalms-101-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Mine eyes shall be upon the faithful of the land, that they may dwell with me: he that walketh in a perfect way, he shall serve me.
         </p><p id="psalms-101-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> He that worketh deceit shall not dwell within my house: he that telleth lies shall not tarry in my sight.
         </p><p id="psalms-101-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> I will early destroy all the wicked of the land; that I may cut off all wicked doers from the city of the LORD.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-102">Psalm 102</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-102-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Hear my prayer, O LORD, and let my cry come unto thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-102-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Hide not thy face from me in the day when I am in trouble; incline thine ear unto me: in the day when I call answer me speedily.
         </p><p id="psalms-102-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> For my days are consumed like smoke, and my bones are burned as an hearth.
         </p><p id="psalms-102-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> My heart is smitten, and withered like grass; so that I forget to eat my bread.
         </p><p id="psalms-102-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> By reason of the voice of my groaning my bones cleave to my skin.
         </p><p id="psalms-102-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> I am like a pelican of the wilderness: I am like an owl of the desert.
         </p><p id="psalms-102-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> I watch, and am as a sparrow alone upon the house top.
         </p><p id="psalms-102-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Mine enemies reproach me all the day; and they that are mad against me are sworn against me.
         </p><p id="psalms-102-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> For I have eaten ashes like bread, and mingled my drink with weeping.
         </p><p id="psalms-102-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Because of thine indignation and thy wrath: for thou hast lifted me up, and cast me down.
         </p><p id="psalms-102-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> My days are like a shadow that declineth; and I am withered like grass.
         </p><p id="psalms-102-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> But thou, O LORD, shall endure for ever; and thy remembrance unto all generations.
         </p><p id="psalms-102-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Thou shalt arise, and have mercy upon Zion: for the time to favour her, yea, the set time, is come.
         </p><p id="psalms-102-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> For thy servants take pleasure in her stones, and favour the dust thereof.
         </p><p id="psalms-102-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> So the heathen shall fear the name of the LORD, and all the kings of the earth thy glory.
         </p><p id="psalms-102-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> When the LORD shall build up Zion, he shall appear in his glory.
         </p><p id="psalms-102-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> He will regard the prayer of the destitute, and not despise their prayer.
         </p><p id="psalms-102-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> This shall be written for the generation to come: and the people which shall be created shall praise the LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-102-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> For he hath looked down from the height of his sanctuary; from heaven did the LORD behold the earth;
         </p><p id="psalms-102-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> To hear the groaning of the prisoner; to loose those that are appointed to death;
         </p><p id="psalms-102-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> To declare the name of the LORD in Zion, and his praise in Jerusalem;
         </p><p id="psalms-102-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> When the people are gathered together, and the kingdoms, to serve the LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-102-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> He weakened my strength in the way; he shortened my days.
         </p><p id="psalms-102-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> I said, O my God, take me not away in the midst of my days: thy years are throughout all generations.
         </p><p id="psalms-102-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> Of old hast thou laid the foundation of the earth: and the heavens are the work of thy hands.
         </p><p id="psalms-102-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> They shall perish, but thou shalt endure: yea, all of them shall wax old like a garment; as a vesture shalt thou change them, and they shall be changed:
         </p><p id="psalms-102-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> But thou art the same, and thy years shall have no end.
         </p><p id="psalms-102-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> The children of thy servants shall continue, and their seed shall be established before thee.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-103">Psalm 103</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-103-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Bless the LORD, O my soul: and all that is within me, bless his holy name.
         </p><p id="psalms-103-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Bless the LORD, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits:
         </p><p id="psalms-103-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Who forgiveth all thine iniquities; who healeth all thy diseases;
         </p><p id="psalms-103-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Who redeemeth thy life from destruction; who crowneth thee with lovingkindness and tender mercies;
         </p><p id="psalms-103-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Who satisfieth thy mouth with good things; so that thy youth is renewed like the eagle's.
         </p><p id="psalms-103-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> The LORD executeth righteousness and judgment for all that are oppressed.
         </p><p id="psalms-103-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> He made known his ways unto Moses, his acts unto the children of Israel.
         </p><p id="psalms-103-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> The LORD is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy.
         </p><p id="psalms-103-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> He will not always chide: neither will he keep his anger for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-103-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> He hath not dealt with us after our sins; nor rewarded us according to our iniquities.
         </p><p id="psalms-103-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> For as the heaven is high above the earth, so great is his mercy toward them that fear him.
         </p><p id="psalms-103-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> As far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our transgressions from us.
         </p><p id="psalms-103-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Like as a father pitieth his children, so the LORD pitieth them that fear him.
         </p><p id="psalms-103-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> For he knoweth our frame; he remembereth that we are dust.
         </p><p id="psalms-103-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> As for man, his days are as grass: as a flower of the field, so he flourisheth.
         </p><p id="psalms-103-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> For the wind passeth over it, and it is gone; and the place thereof shall know it no more.
         </p><p id="psalms-103-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> But the mercy of the LORD is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him, and his righteousness unto children's children;
         </p><p id="psalms-103-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> To such as keep his covenant, and to those that remember his commandments to do them.
         </p><p id="psalms-103-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> The LORD hath prepared his throne in the heavens; and his kingdom ruleth over all.
         </p><p id="psalms-103-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Bless the LORD, ye his angels, that excel in strength, that do his commandments, hearkening unto the voice of his word.
         </p><p id="psalms-103-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> Bless ye the LORD, all ye his hosts; ye ministers of his, that do his pleasure.
         </p><p id="psalms-103-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> Bless the LORD, all his works in all places of his dominion: bless the LORD, O my soul.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-104">Psalm 104</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-104-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Bless the LORD, O my soul. O LORD my God, thou art very great; thou art clothed with honour and majesty.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Who coverest thyself with light as with a garment: who stretchest out the heavens like a curtain:
         </p><p id="psalms-104-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Who layeth the beams of his chambers in the waters: who maketh the clouds his chariot: who walketh upon the wings of the wind:
         </p><p id="psalms-104-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Who maketh his angels spirits; his ministers a flaming fire:
         </p><p id="psalms-104-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Who laid the foundations of the earth, that it should not be removed for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Thou coveredst it with the deep as with a garment: the waters stood above the mountains.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> At thy rebuke they fled; at the voice of thy thunder they hasted away.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> They go up by the mountains; they go down by the valleys unto the place which thou hast founded for them.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Thou hast set a bound that they may not pass over; that they turn not again to cover the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> He sendeth the springs into the valleys, which run among the hills.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> They give drink to every beast of the field: the wild asses quench their thirst.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> By them shall the fowls of the heaven have their habitation, which sing among the branches.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> He watereth the hills from his chambers: the earth is satisfied with the fruit of thy works.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> He causeth the grass to grow for the cattle, and herb for the service of man: that he may bring forth food out of the earth;
         </p><p id="psalms-104-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> And wine that maketh glad the heart of man, and oil to make his face to shine, and bread which strengtheneth man's heart.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> The trees of the LORD are full of sap; the cedars of Lebanon, which he hath planted;
         </p><p id="psalms-104-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Where the birds make their nests: as for the stork, the fir trees are her house.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> The high hills are a refuge for the wild goats; and the rocks for the conies.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> He appointed the moon for seasons: the sun knoweth his going down.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Thou makest darkness, and it is night: wherein all the beasts of the forest do creep forth.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> The young lions roar after their prey, and seek their meat from God.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> The sun ariseth, they gather themselves together, and lay them down in their dens.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> Man goeth forth unto his work and to his labour until the evening.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> O LORD, how manifold are thy works! in wisdom hast thou made them all: the earth is full of thy riches.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> So is this great and wide sea, wherein are things creeping innumerable, both small and great beasts.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> There go the ships: there is that leviathan, whom thou hast made to play therein.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> These wait all upon thee; that thou mayest give them their meat in due season.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> That thou givest them they gather: thou openest thine hand, they are filled with good.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> Thou hidest thy face, they are troubled: thou takest away their breath, they die, and return to their dust.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> Thou sendest forth thy spirit, they are created: and thou renewest the face of the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-31"><span class="num-verse-rw">31</span> The glory of the LORD shall endure for ever: the LORD shall rejoice in his works.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-32"><span class="num-verse-rw">32</span> He looketh on the earth, and it trembleth: he toucheth the hills, and they smoke.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-33"><span class="num-verse-rw">33</span> I will sing unto the LORD as long as I live: I will sing praise to my God while I have my being.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-34"><span class="num-verse-rw">34</span> My meditation of him shall be sweet: I will be glad in the LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-104-35"><span class="num-verse-rw">35</span> Let the sinners be consumed out of the earth, and let the wicked be no more. Bless thou the LORD, O my soul. Praise ye the LORD.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-105">Psalm 105</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-105-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> O give thanks unto the LORD; call upon his name: make known his deeds among the people.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Sing unto him, sing psalms unto him: talk ye of all his wondrous works.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Glory ye in his holy name: let the heart of them rejoice that seek the LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Seek the LORD, and his strength: seek his face evermore.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Remember his marvellous works that he hath done; his wonders, and the judgments of his mouth;
         </p><p id="psalms-105-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> O ye seed of Abraham his servant, ye children of Jacob his chosen.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> He is the LORD our God: his judgments are in all the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> He hath remembered his covenant for ever, the word which he commanded to a thousand generations.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Which covenant he made with Abraham, and his oath unto Isaac;
         </p><p id="psalms-105-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> And confirmed the same unto Jacob for a law, and to Israel for an everlasting covenant:
         </p><p id="psalms-105-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Saying, Unto thee will I give the land of Canaan, the lot of your inheritance:
         </p><p id="psalms-105-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> When they were but a few men in number; yea, very few, and strangers in it.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> When they went from one nation to another, from one kingdom to another people;
         </p><p id="psalms-105-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> He suffered no man to do them wrong: yea, he reproved kings for their sakes;
         </p><p id="psalms-105-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Saying, Touch not mine anointed, and do my prophets no harm.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Moreover he called for a famine upon the land: he brake the whole staff of bread.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> He sent a man before them, even Joseph, who was sold for a servant:
         </p><p id="psalms-105-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Whose feet they hurt with fetters: he was laid in iron:
         </p><p id="psalms-105-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Until the time that his word came: the word of the LORD tried him.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> The king sent and loosed him; even the ruler of the people, and let him go free.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> He made him lord of his house, and ruler of all his substance:
         </p><p id="psalms-105-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> To bind his princes at his pleasure; and teach his senators wisdom.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> Israel also came into Egypt; and Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> And he increased his people greatly; and made them stronger than their enemies.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> He turned their heart to hate his people, to deal subtilly with his servants.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> He sent Moses his servant; and Aaron whom he had chosen.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> They shewed his signs among them, and wonders in the land of Ham.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> He sent darkness, and made it dark; and they rebelled not against his word.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> He turned their waters into blood, and slew their fish.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> Their land brought forth frogs in abundance, in the chambers of their kings.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-31"><span class="num-verse-rw">31</span> He spake, and there came divers sorts of flies, and lice in all their coasts.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-32"><span class="num-verse-rw">32</span> He gave them hail for rain, and flaming fire in their land.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-33"><span class="num-verse-rw">33</span> He smote their vines also and their fig trees; and brake the trees of their coasts.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-34"><span class="num-verse-rw">34</span> He spake, and the locusts came, and caterpillers, and that without number,
         </p><p id="psalms-105-35"><span class="num-verse-rw">35</span> And did eat up all the herbs in their land, and devoured the fruit of their ground.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-36"><span class="num-verse-rw">36</span> He smote also all the firstborn in their land, the chief of all their strength.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-37"><span class="num-verse-rw">37</span> He brought them forth also with silver and gold: and there was not one feeble person among their tribes.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-38"><span class="num-verse-rw">38</span> Egypt was glad when they departed: for the fear of them fell upon them.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-39"><span class="num-verse-rw">39</span> He spread a cloud for a covering; and fire to give light in the night.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-40"><span class="num-verse-rw">40</span> The people asked, and he brought quails, and satisfied them with the bread of heaven.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-41"><span class="num-verse-rw">41</span> He opened the rock, and the waters gushed out; they ran in the dry places like a river.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-42"><span class="num-verse-rw">42</span> For he remembered his holy promise, and Abraham his servant.
         </p><p id="psalms-105-43"><span class="num-verse-rw">43</span> And he brought forth his people with joy, and his chosen with gladness:
         </p><p id="psalms-105-44"><span class="num-verse-rw">44</span> And gave them the lands of the heathen: and they inherited the labour of the people;
         </p><p id="psalms-105-45"><span class="num-verse-rw">45</span> That they might observe his statutes, and keep his laws. Praise ye the LORD.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-106">Psalm 106</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-106-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Praise ye the LORD. O give thanks unto the LORD; for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Who can utter the mighty acts of the LORD? who can shew forth all his praise?
         </p><p id="psalms-106-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Blessed are they that keep judgment, and he that doeth righteousness at all times.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Remember me, O LORD, with the favour that thou bearest unto thy people: O visit me with thy salvation;
         </p><p id="psalms-106-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> That I may see the good of thy chosen, that I may rejoice in the gladness of thy nation, that I may glory with thine inheritance.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> We have sinned with our fathers, we have committed iniquity, we have done wickedly.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Our fathers understood not thy wonders in Egypt; they remembered not the multitude of thy mercies; but provoked him at the sea, even at the Red sea.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Nevertheless he saved them for his name's sake, that he might make his mighty power to be known.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> He rebuked the Red sea also, and it was dried up: so he led them through the depths, as through the wilderness.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> And he saved them from the hand of him that hated them, and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> And the waters covered their enemies: there was not one of them left.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Then believed they his words; they sang his praise.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> They soon forgat his works; they waited not for his counsel:
         </p><p id="psalms-106-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> But lusted exceedingly in the wilderness, and tempted God in the desert.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> And he gave them their request; but sent leanness into their soul.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> They envied Moses also in the camp, and Aaron the saint of the LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan and covered the company of Abiram.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> And a fire was kindled in their company; the flame burned up the wicked.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> They made a calf in Horeb, and worshipped the molten image.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Thus they changed their glory into the similitude of an ox that eateth grass.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> They forgat God their saviour, which had done great things in Egypt;
         </p><p id="psalms-106-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> Wondrous works in the land of Ham, and terrible things by the Red sea.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> Therefore he said that he would destroy them, had not Moses his chosen stood before him in the breach, to turn away his wrath, lest he should destroy them.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> Yea, they despised the pleasant land, they believed not his word:
         </p><p id="psalms-106-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> But murmured in their tents, and hearkened not unto the voice of the LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> Therefore he lifted up his hand against them, to overthrow them in the wilderness:
         </p><p id="psalms-106-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> To overthrow their seed also among the nations, and to scatter them in the lands.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> They joined themselves also unto Baalpeor, and ate the sacrifices of the dead.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> Thus they provoked him to anger with their inventions: and the plague brake in upon them.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> Then stood up Phinehas, and executed judgment: and so the plague was stayed.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-31"><span class="num-verse-rw">31</span> And that was counted unto him for righteousness unto all generations for evermore.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-32"><span class="num-verse-rw">32</span> They angered him also at the waters of strife, so that it went ill with Moses for their sakes:
         </p><p id="psalms-106-33"><span class="num-verse-rw">33</span> Because they provoked his spirit, so that he spake unadvisedly with his lips.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-34"><span class="num-verse-rw">34</span> They did not destroy the nations, concerning whom the LORD commanded them:
         </p><p id="psalms-106-35"><span class="num-verse-rw">35</span> But were mingled among the heathen, and learned their works.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-36"><span class="num-verse-rw">36</span> And they served their idols: which were a snare unto them.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-37"><span class="num-verse-rw">37</span> Yea, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters unto devils,
         </p><p id="psalms-106-38"><span class="num-verse-rw">38</span> And shed innocent blood, even the blood of their sons and of their daughters, whom they sacrificed unto the idols of Canaan: and the land was polluted with blood.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-39"><span class="num-verse-rw">39</span> Thus were they defiled with their own works, and went a whoring with their own inventions.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-40"><span class="num-verse-rw">40</span> Therefore was the wrath of the LORD kindled against his people, insomuch that he abhorred his own inheritance.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-41"><span class="num-verse-rw">41</span> And he gave them into the hand of the heathen; and they that hated them ruled over them.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-42"><span class="num-verse-rw">42</span> Their enemies also oppressed them, and they were brought into subjection under their hand.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-43"><span class="num-verse-rw">43</span> Many times did he deliver them; but they provoked him with their counsel, and were brought low for their iniquity.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-44"><span class="num-verse-rw">44</span> Nevertheless he regarded their affliction, when he heard their cry:
         </p><p id="psalms-106-45"><span class="num-verse-rw">45</span> And he remembered for them his covenant, and repented according to the multitude of his mercies.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-46"><span class="num-verse-rw">46</span> He made them also to be pitied of all those that carried them captives.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-47"><span class="num-verse-rw">47</span> Save us, O LORD our God, and gather us from among the heathen, to give thanks unto thy holy name, and to triumph in thy praise.
         </p><p id="psalms-106-48"><span class="num-verse-rw">48</span> Blessed be the LORD God of Israel from everlasting to everlasting: and let all the people say, Amen. Praise ye the LORD.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-107">Psalm 107</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-107-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> O give thanks unto the LORD, for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Let the redeemed of the LORD say so, whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy;
         </p><p id="psalms-107-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> And gathered them out of the lands, from the east, and from the west, from the north, and from the south.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> They wandered in the wilderness in a solitary way; they found no city to dwell in.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted in them.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Then they cried unto the LORD in their trouble, and he delivered them out of their distresses.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> And he led them forth by the right way, that they might go to a city of habitation.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Oh that men would praise the LORD for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men!
         </p><p id="psalms-107-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> For he satisfieth the longing soul, and filleth the hungry soul with goodness.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Such as sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, being bound in affliction and iron;
         </p><p id="psalms-107-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Because they rebelled against the words of God, and contemned the counsel of the most High:
         </p><p id="psalms-107-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Therefore he brought down their heart with labour; they fell down, and there was none to help.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Then they cried unto the LORD in their trouble, and he saved them out of their distresses.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, and brake their bands in sunder.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Oh that men would praise the LORD for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men!
         </p><p id="psalms-107-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> For he hath broken the gates of brass, and cut the bars of iron in sunder.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Fools because of their transgression, and because of their iniquities, are afflicted.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Their soul abhorreth all manner of meat; and they draw near unto the gates of death.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Then they cry unto the LORD in their trouble, and he saveth them out of their distresses.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> He sent his word, and healed them, and delivered them from their destructions.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> Oh that men would praise the LORD for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men!
         </p><p id="psalms-107-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> And let them sacrifice the sacrifices of thanksgiving, and declare his works with rejoicing.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> They that go down to the sea in ships, that do business in great waters;
         </p><p id="psalms-107-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> These see the works of the LORD, and his wonders in the deep.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> For he commandeth, and raiseth the stormy wind, which lifteth up the waves thereof.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> They mount up to the heaven, they go down again to the depths: their soul is melted because of trouble.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> They reel to and fro, and stagger like a drunken man, and are at their wit's end.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> Then they cry unto the LORD in their trouble, and he bringeth them out of their distresses.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> He maketh the storm a calm, so that the waves thereof are still.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> Then are they glad because they be quiet; so he bringeth them unto their desired haven.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-31"><span class="num-verse-rw">31</span> Oh that men would praise the LORD for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men!
         </p><p id="psalms-107-32"><span class="num-verse-rw">32</span> Let them exalt him also in the congregation of the people, and praise him in the assembly of the elders.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-33"><span class="num-verse-rw">33</span> He turneth rivers into a wilderness, and the watersprings into dry ground;
         </p><p id="psalms-107-34"><span class="num-verse-rw">34</span> A fruitful land into barrenness, for the wickedness of them that dwell therein.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-35"><span class="num-verse-rw">35</span> He turneth the wilderness into a standing water, and dry ground into watersprings.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-36"><span class="num-verse-rw">36</span> And there he maketh the hungry to dwell, that they may prepare a city for habitation;
         </p><p id="psalms-107-37"><span class="num-verse-rw">37</span> And sow the fields, and plant vineyards, which may yield fruits of increase.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-38"><span class="num-verse-rw">38</span> He blesseth them also, so that they are multiplied greatly; and suffereth not their cattle to decrease.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-39"><span class="num-verse-rw">39</span> Again, they are minished and brought low through oppression, affliction, and sorrow.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-40"><span class="num-verse-rw">40</span> He poureth contempt upon princes, and causeth them to wander in the wilderness, where there is no way.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-41"><span class="num-verse-rw">41</span> Yet setteth he the poor on high from affliction, and maketh him families like a flock.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-42"><span class="num-verse-rw">42</span> The righteous shall see it, and rejoice: and all iniquity shall stop her mouth.
         </p><p id="psalms-107-43"><span class="num-verse-rw">43</span> Whoso is wise, and will observe these things, even they shall understand the lovingkindness of the LORD.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-108">Psalm 108</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-108-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> O god, my heart is fixed; I will sing and give praise, even with my glory.
         </p><p id="psalms-108-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Awake, psaltery and harp: I myself will awake early.
         </p><p id="psalms-108-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> I will praise thee, O LORD, among the people: and I will sing praises unto thee among the nations.
         </p><p id="psalms-108-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> For thy mercy is great above the heavens: and thy truth reacheth unto the clouds.
         </p><p id="psalms-108-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens: and thy glory above all the earth;
         </p><p id="psalms-108-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> That thy beloved may be delivered: save with thy right hand, and answer me.
         </p><p id="psalms-108-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> God hath spoken in his holiness; I will rejoice, I will divide Shechem, and mete out the valley of Succoth.
         </p><p id="psalms-108-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Gilead is mine; Manasseh is mine; Ephraim also is the strength of mine head; Judah is my lawgiver;
         </p><p id="psalms-108-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Moab is my washpot; over Edom will I cast out my shoe; over Philistia will I triumph.
         </p><p id="psalms-108-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Who will bring me into the strong city? who will lead me into Edom?
         </p><p id="psalms-108-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Wilt not thou, O God, who hast cast us off? and wilt not thou, O God, go forth with our hosts?
         </p><p id="psalms-108-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Give us help from trouble: for vain is the help of man.
         </p><p id="psalms-108-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Through God we shall do valiantly: for he it is that shall tread down our enemies.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-109">Psalm 109</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-109-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Hold not thy peace, O God of my praise;
         </p><p id="psalms-109-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> For the mouth of the wicked and the mouth of the deceitful are opened against me: they have spoken against me with a lying tongue.
         </p><p id="psalms-109-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> They compassed me about also with words of hatred; and fought against me without a cause.
         </p><p id="psalms-109-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> For my love they are my adversaries: but I give myself unto prayer.
         </p><p id="psalms-109-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> And they have rewarded me evil for good, and hatred for my love.
         </p><p id="psalms-109-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Set thou a wicked man over him: and let Satan stand at his right hand.
         </p><p id="psalms-109-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> When he shall be judged, let him be condemned: and let his prayer become sin.
         </p><p id="psalms-109-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Let his days be few; and let another take his office.
         </p><p id="psalms-109-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Let his children be fatherless, and his wife a widow.
         </p><p id="psalms-109-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Let his children be continually vagabonds, and beg: let them seek their bread also out of their desolate places.
         </p><p id="psalms-109-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Let the extortioner catch all that he hath; and let the strangers spoil his labour.
         </p><p id="psalms-109-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Let there be none to extend mercy unto him: neither let there be any to favour his fatherless children.
         </p><p id="psalms-109-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Let his posterity be cut off; and in the generation following let their name be blotted out.
         </p><p id="psalms-109-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered with the LORD; and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out.
         </p><p id="psalms-109-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Let them be before the LORD continually, that he may cut off the memory of them from the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-109-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Because that he remembered not to shew mercy, but persecuted the poor and needy man, that he might even slay the broken in heart.
         </p><p id="psalms-109-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> As he loved cursing, so let it come unto him: as he delighted not in blessing, so let it be far from him.
         </p><p id="psalms-109-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> As he clothed himself with cursing like as with his garment, so let it come into his bowels like water, and like oil into his bones.
         </p><p id="psalms-109-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Let it be unto him as the garment which covereth him, and for a girdle wherewith he is girded continually.
         </p><p id="psalms-109-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Let this be the reward of mine adversaries from the LORD, and of them that speak evil against my soul.
         </p><p id="psalms-109-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> But do thou for me, O GOD the Lord, for thy name's sake: because thy mercy is good, deliver thou me.
         </p><p id="psalms-109-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> For I am poor and needy, and my heart is wounded within me.
         </p><p id="psalms-109-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> I am gone like the shadow when it declineth: I am tossed up and down as the locust.
         </p><p id="psalms-109-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> My knees are weak through fasting; and my flesh faileth of fatness.
         </p><p id="psalms-109-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> I became also a reproach unto them: when they looked upon me they shaked their heads.
         </p><p id="psalms-109-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> Help me, O LORD my God: O save me according to thy mercy:
         </p><p id="psalms-109-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> That they may know that this is thy hand; that thou, LORD, hast done it.
         </p><p id="psalms-109-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> Let them curse, but bless thou: when they arise, let them be ashamed; but let thy servant rejoice.
         </p><p id="psalms-109-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> Let mine adversaries be clothed with shame, and let them cover themselves with their own confusion, as with a mantle.
         </p><p id="psalms-109-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> I will greatly praise the LORD with my mouth; yea, I will praise him among the multitude.
         </p><p id="psalms-109-31"><span class="num-verse-rw">31</span> For he shall stand at the right hand of the poor, to save him from those that condemn his soul.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-110">Psalm 110</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-110-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> The LORD said unto my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand, until I make thine enemies thy footstool.
         </p><p id="psalms-110-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> The LORD shall send the rod of thy strength out of Zion: rule thou in the midst of thine enemies.
         </p><p id="psalms-110-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Thy people shall be willing in the day of thy power, in the beauties of holiness from the womb of the morning: thou hast the dew of thy youth.
         </p><p id="psalms-110-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> The LORD hath sworn, and will not repent, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.
         </p><p id="psalms-110-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> The Lord at thy right hand shall strike through kings in the day of his wrath.
         </p><p id="psalms-110-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> He shall judge among the heathen, he shall fill the places with the dead bodies; he shall wound the heads over many countries.
         </p><p id="psalms-110-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> He shall drink of the brook in the way: therefore shall he lift up the head.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-111">Psalm 111</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-111-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Praise ye the LORD. I will praise the LORD with my whole heart, in the assembly of the upright, and in the congregation.
         </p><p id="psalms-111-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> The works of the LORD are great, sought out of all them that have pleasure therein.
         </p><p id="psalms-111-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> His work is honourable and glorious: and his righteousness endureth for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-111-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> He hath made his wonderful works to be remembered: the LORD is gracious and full of compassion.
         </p><p id="psalms-111-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> He hath given meat unto them that fear him: he will ever be mindful of his covenant.
         </p><p id="psalms-111-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> He hath shewed his people the power of his works, that he may give them the heritage of the heathen.
         </p><p id="psalms-111-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> The works of his hands are verity and judgment; all his commandments are sure.
         </p><p id="psalms-111-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> They stand fast for ever and ever, and are done in truth and uprightness.
         </p><p id="psalms-111-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> He sent redemption unto his people: he hath commanded his covenant for ever: holy and reverend is his name.
         </p><p id="psalms-111-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom: a good understanding have all they that do his commandments: his praise endureth for ever.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-112">Psalm 112</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-112-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Praise ye the LORD. Blessed is the man that feareth the LORD, that delighteth greatly in his commandments.
         </p><p id="psalms-112-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> His seed shall be mighty upon earth: the generation of the upright shall be blessed.
         </p><p id="psalms-112-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Wealth and riches shall be in his house: and his righteousness endureth for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-112-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Unto the upright there ariseth light in the darkness: he is gracious, and full of compassion, and righteous.
         </p><p id="psalms-112-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> A good man sheweth favour, and lendeth: he will guide his affairs with discretion.
         </p><p id="psalms-112-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Surely he shall not be moved for ever: the righteous shall be in everlasting remembrance.
         </p><p id="psalms-112-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> He shall not be afraid of evil tidings: his heart is fixed, trusting in the LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-112-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> His heart is established, he shall not be afraid, until he see his desire upon his enemies.
         </p><p id="psalms-112-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> He hath dispersed, he hath given to the poor; his righteousness endureth for ever; his horn shall be exalted with honour.
         </p><p id="psalms-112-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> The wicked shall see it, and be grieved; he shall gnash with his teeth, and melt away: the desire of the wicked shall perish.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-113">Psalm 113</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-113-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Praise ye the LORD. Praise, O ye servants of the LORD, praise the name of the LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-113-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Blessed be the name of the LORD from this time forth and for evermore.
         </p><p id="psalms-113-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> From the rising of the sun unto the going down of the same the LORD's name is to be praised.
         </p><p id="psalms-113-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> The LORD is high above all nations, and his glory above the heavens.
         </p><p id="psalms-113-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Who is like unto the LORD our God, who dwelleth on high,
         </p><p id="psalms-113-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Who humbleth himself to behold the things that are in heaven, and in the earth!
         </p><p id="psalms-113-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, and lifteth the needy out of the dunghill;
         </p><p id="psalms-113-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> That he may set him with princes, even with the princes of his people.
         </p><p id="psalms-113-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> He maketh the barren woman to keep house, and to be a joyful mother of children. Praise ye the LORD.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-114">Psalm 114</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-114-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> When Israel went out of Egypt, the house of Jacob from a people of strange language;
         </p><p id="psalms-114-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Judah was his sanctuary, and Israel his dominion.
         </p><p id="psalms-114-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> The sea saw it, and fled: Jordan was driven back.
         </p><p id="psalms-114-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> The mountains skipped like rams, and the little hills like lambs.
         </p><p id="psalms-114-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> What ailed thee, O thou sea, that thou fleddest? thou Jordan, that thou wast driven back?
         </p><p id="psalms-114-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Ye mountains, that ye skipped like rams; and ye little hills, like lambs?
         </p><p id="psalms-114-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Tremble, thou earth, at the presence of the Lord, at the presence of the God of Jacob;
         </p><p id="psalms-114-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Which turned the rock into a standing water, the flint into a fountain of waters.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-115">Psalm 115</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-115-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Not unto us, O LORD, not unto us, but unto thy name give glory, for thy mercy, and for thy truth's sake.
         </p><p id="psalms-115-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Wherefore should the heathen say, Where is now their God?
         </p><p id="psalms-115-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> But our God is in the heavens: he hath done whatsoever he hath pleased.
         </p><p id="psalms-115-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Their idols are silver and gold, the work of men's hands.
         </p><p id="psalms-115-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> They have mouths, but they speak not: eyes have they, but they see not:
         </p><p id="psalms-115-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> They have ears, but they hear not: noses have they, but they smell not:
         </p><p id="psalms-115-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> They have hands, but they handle not: feet have they, but they walk not: neither speak they through their throat.
         </p><p id="psalms-115-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> They that make them are like unto them; so is every one that trusteth in them.
         </p><p id="psalms-115-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> O Israel, trust thou in the LORD: he is their help and their shield.
         </p><p id="psalms-115-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> O house of Aaron, trust in the LORD: he is their help and their shield.
         </p><p id="psalms-115-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Ye that fear the LORD, trust in the LORD: he is their help and their shield.
         </p><p id="psalms-115-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> The LORD hath been mindful of us: he will bless us; he will bless the house of Israel; he will bless the house of Aaron.
         </p><p id="psalms-115-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> He will bless them that fear the LORD, both small and great.
         </p><p id="psalms-115-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> The LORD shall increase you more and more, you and your children.
         </p><p id="psalms-115-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Ye are blessed of the LORD which made heaven and earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-115-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> The heaven, even the heavens, are the LORD's: but the earth hath he given to the children of men.
         </p><p id="psalms-115-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> The dead praise not the LORD, neither any that go down into silence.
         </p><p id="psalms-115-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> But we will bless the LORD from this time forth and for evermore. Praise the LORD.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-116">Psalm 116</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-116-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> I love the LORD, because he hath heard my voice and my supplications.
         </p><p id="psalms-116-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Because he hath inclined his ear unto me, therefore will I call upon him as long as I live.
         </p><p id="psalms-116-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> The sorrows of death compassed me, and the pains of hell gat hold upon me: I found trouble and sorrow.
         </p><p id="psalms-116-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Then called I upon the name of the LORD; O LORD, I beseech thee, deliver my soul.
         </p><p id="psalms-116-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Gracious is the LORD, and righteous; yea, our God is merciful.
         </p><p id="psalms-116-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> The LORD preserveth the simple: I was brought low, and he helped me.
         </p><p id="psalms-116-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Return unto thy rest, O my soul; for the LORD hath dealt bountifully with thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-116-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> For thou hast delivered my soul from death, mine eyes from tears, and my feet from falling.
         </p><p id="psalms-116-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> I will walk before the LORD in the land of the living.
         </p><p id="psalms-116-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> I believed, therefore have I spoken: I was greatly afflicted:
         </p><p id="psalms-116-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> I said in my haste, All men are liars.
         </p><p id="psalms-116-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> What shall I render unto the LORD for all his benefits toward me?
         </p><p id="psalms-116-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> I will take the cup of salvation, and call upon the name of the LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-116-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> I will pay my vows unto the LORD now in the presence of all his people.
         </p><p id="psalms-116-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Precious in the sight of the LORD is the death of his saints.
         </p><p id="psalms-116-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> O LORD, truly I am thy servant; I am thy servant, and the son of thine handmaid: thou hast loosed my bonds.
         </p><p id="psalms-116-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> I will offer to thee the sacrifice of thanksgiving, and will call upon the name of the LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-116-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> I will pay my vows unto the LORD now in the presence of all his people.
         </p><p id="psalms-116-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> In the courts of the LORD's house, in the midst of thee, O Jerusalem. Praise ye the LORD.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-117">Psalm 117</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-117-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> O praise the LORD, all ye nations: praise him, all ye people.
         </p><p id="psalms-117-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> For his merciful kindness is great toward us: and the truth of the LORD endureth for ever. Praise ye the LORD.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-118">Psalm 118</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-118-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> O give thanks unto the LORD; for he is good: because his mercy endureth for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-118-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Let Israel now say, that his mercy endureth for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-118-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Let the house of Aaron now say, that his mercy endureth for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-118-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Let them now that fear the LORD say, that his mercy endureth for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-118-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> I called upon the LORD in distress: the LORD answered me, and set me in a large place.
         </p><p id="psalms-118-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> The LORD is on my side; I will not fear: what can man do unto me?
         </p><p id="psalms-118-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> The LORD taketh my part with them that help me: therefore shall I see my desire upon them that hate me.
         </p><p id="psalms-118-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> It is better to trust in the LORD than to put confidence in man.
         </p><p id="psalms-118-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> It is better to trust in the LORD than to put confidence in princes.
         </p><p id="psalms-118-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> All nations compassed me about: but in the name of the LORD will I destroy them.
         </p><p id="psalms-118-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> They compassed me about; yea, they compassed me about: but in the name of the LORD I will destroy them.
         </p><p id="psalms-118-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> They compassed me about like bees: they are quenched as the fire of thorns: for in the name of the LORD I will destroy them.
         </p><p id="psalms-118-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Thou hast thrust sore at me that I might fall: but the LORD helped me.
         </p><p id="psalms-118-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> The LORD is my strength and song, and is become my salvation.
         </p><p id="psalms-118-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tabernacles of the righteous: the right hand of the LORD doeth valiantly.
         </p><p id="psalms-118-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> The right hand of the LORD is exalted: the right hand of the LORD doeth valiantly.
         </p><p id="psalms-118-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> I shall not die, but live, and declare the works of the LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-118-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> The LORD hath chastened me sore: but he hath not given me over unto death.
         </p><p id="psalms-118-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Open to me the gates of righteousness: I will go into them, and I will praise the LORD:
         </p><p id="psalms-118-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> This gate of the LORD, into which the righteous shall enter.
         </p><p id="psalms-118-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> I will praise thee: for thou hast heard me, and art become my salvation.
         </p><p id="psalms-118-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> The stone which the builders refused is become the head stone of the corner.
         </p><p id="psalms-118-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> This is the LORD's doing; it is marvellous in our eyes.
         </p><p id="psalms-118-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> This is the day which the LORD hath made; we will rejoice and be glad in it.
         </p><p id="psalms-118-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> Save now, I beseech thee, O LORD: O LORD, I beseech thee, send now prosperity.
         </p><p id="psalms-118-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> Blessed be he that cometh in the name of the LORD: we have blessed you out of the house of the LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-118-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> God is the LORD, which hath shewed us light: bind the sacrifice with cords, even unto the horns of the altar.
         </p><p id="psalms-118-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> Thou art my God, and I will praise thee: thou art my God, I will exalt thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-118-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> O give thanks unto the LORD; for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-119">Psalm 119</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-119-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Blessed are the undefiled in the way, who walk in the law of the LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Blessed are they that keep his testimonies, and that seek him with the whole heart.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> They also do no iniquity: they walk in his ways.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Thou hast commanded us to keep thy precepts diligently.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> O that my ways were directed to keep thy statutes!
         </p><p id="psalms-119-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Then shall I not be ashamed, when I have respect unto all thy commandments.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> I will praise thee with uprightness of heart, when I shall have learned thy righteous judgments.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> I will keep thy statutes: O forsake me not utterly.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? by taking heed thereto according to thy word.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> With my whole heart have I sought thee: O let me not wander from thy commandments.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Thy word have I hid in mine heart, that I might not sin against thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Blessed art thou, O LORD: teach me thy statutes.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> With my lips have I declared all the judgments of thy mouth.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> I have rejoiced in the way of thy testimonies, as much as in all riches.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> I will meditate in thy precepts, and have respect unto thy ways.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> I will delight myself in thy statutes: I will not forget thy word.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Deal bountifully with thy servant, that I may live, and keep thy word.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Open thou mine eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of thy law.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> I am a stranger in the earth: hide not thy commandments from me.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> My soul breaketh for the longing that it hath unto thy judgments at all times.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> Thou hast rebuked the proud that are cursed, which do err from thy commandments.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> Remove from me reproach and contempt; for I have kept thy testimonies.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> Princes also did sit and speak against me: but thy servant did meditate in thy statutes.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> Thy testimonies also are my delight and my counsellors.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> My soul cleaveth unto the dust: quicken thou me according to thy word.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> I have declared my ways, and thou heardest me: teach me thy statutes.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> Make me to understand the way of thy precepts: so shall I talk of thy wondrous works.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> My soul melteth for heaviness: strengthen thou me according unto thy word.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> Remove from me the way of lying: and grant me thy law graciously.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> I have chosen the way of truth: thy judgments have I laid before me.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-31"><span class="num-verse-rw">31</span> I have stuck unto thy testimonies: O LORD, put me not to shame.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-32"><span class="num-verse-rw">32</span> I will run the way of thy commandments, when thou shalt enlarge my heart.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-33"><span class="num-verse-rw">33</span> Teach me, O LORD, the way of thy statutes; and I shall keep it unto the end.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-34"><span class="num-verse-rw">34</span> Give me understanding, and I shall keep thy law; yea, I shall observe it with my whole heart.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-35"><span class="num-verse-rw">35</span> Make me to go in the path of thy commandments; for therein do I delight.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-36"><span class="num-verse-rw">36</span> Incline my heart unto thy testimonies, and not to covetousness.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-37"><span class="num-verse-rw">37</span> Turn away mine eyes from beholding vanity; and quicken thou me in thy way.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-38"><span class="num-verse-rw">38</span> Stablish thy word unto thy servant, who is devoted to thy fear.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-39"><span class="num-verse-rw">39</span> Turn away my reproach which I fear: for thy judgments are good.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-40"><span class="num-verse-rw">40</span> Behold, I have longed after thy precepts: quicken me in thy righteousness.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-41"><span class="num-verse-rw">41</span> Let thy mercies come also unto me, O LORD, even thy salvation, according to thy word.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-42"><span class="num-verse-rw">42</span> So shall I have wherewith to answer him that reproacheth me: for I trust in thy word.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-43"><span class="num-verse-rw">43</span> And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth; for I have hoped in thy judgments.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-44"><span class="num-verse-rw">44</span> So shall I keep thy law continually for ever and ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-45"><span class="num-verse-rw">45</span> And I will walk at liberty: for I seek thy precepts.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-46"><span class="num-verse-rw">46</span> I will speak of thy testimonies also before kings, and will not be ashamed.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-47"><span class="num-verse-rw">47</span> And I will delight myself in thy commandments, which I have loved.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-48"><span class="num-verse-rw">48</span> My hands also will I lift up unto thy commandments, which I have loved; and I will meditate in thy statutes.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-49"><span class="num-verse-rw">49</span> Remember the word unto thy servant, upon which thou hast caused me to hope.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-50"><span class="num-verse-rw">50</span> This is my comfort in my affliction: for thy word hath quickened me.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-51"><span class="num-verse-rw">51</span> The proud have had me greatly in derision: yet have I not declined from thy law.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-52"><span class="num-verse-rw">52</span> I remembered thy judgments of old, O LORD; and have comforted myself.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-53"><span class="num-verse-rw">53</span> Horror hath taken hold upon me because of the wicked that forsake thy law.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-54"><span class="num-verse-rw">54</span> Thy statutes have been my songs in the house of my pilgrimage.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-55"><span class="num-verse-rw">55</span> I have remembered thy name, O LORD, in the night, and have kept thy law.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-56"><span class="num-verse-rw">56</span> This I had, because I kept thy precepts.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-57"><span class="num-verse-rw">57</span> Thou art my portion, O LORD: I have said that I would keep thy words.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-58"><span class="num-verse-rw">58</span> I intreated thy favour with my whole heart: be merciful unto me according to thy word.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-59"><span class="num-verse-rw">59</span> I thought on my ways, and turned my feet unto thy testimonies.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-60"><span class="num-verse-rw">60</span> I made haste, and delayed not to keep thy commandments.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-61"><span class="num-verse-rw">61</span> The bands of the wicked have robbed me: but I have not forgotten thy law.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-62"><span class="num-verse-rw">62</span> At midnight I will rise to give thanks unto thee because of thy righteous judgments.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-63"><span class="num-verse-rw">63</span> I am a companion of all them that fear thee, and of them that keep thy precepts.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-64"><span class="num-verse-rw">64</span> The earth, O LORD, is full of thy mercy: teach me thy statutes.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-65"><span class="num-verse-rw">65</span> Thou hast dealt well with thy servant, O LORD, according unto thy word.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-66"><span class="num-verse-rw">66</span> Teach me good judgment and knowledge: for I have believed thy commandments.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-67"><span class="num-verse-rw">67</span> Before I was afflicted I went astray: but now have I kept thy word.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-68"><span class="num-verse-rw">68</span> Thou art good, and doest good; teach me thy statutes.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-69"><span class="num-verse-rw">69</span> The proud have forged a lie against me: but I will keep thy precepts with my whole heart.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-70"><span class="num-verse-rw">70</span> Their heart is as fat as grease; but I delight in thy law.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-71"><span class="num-verse-rw">71</span> It is good for me that I have been afflicted; that I might learn thy statutes.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-72"><span class="num-verse-rw">72</span> The law of thy mouth is better unto me than thousands of gold and silver.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-73"><span class="num-verse-rw">73</span> Thy hands have made me and fashioned me: give me understanding, that I may learn thy commandments.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-74"><span class="num-verse-rw">74</span> They that fear thee will be glad when they see me; because I have hoped in thy word.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-75"><span class="num-verse-rw">75</span> I know, O LORD, that thy judgments are right, and that thou in faithfulness hast afflicted me.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-76"><span class="num-verse-rw">76</span> Let, I pray thee, thy merciful kindness be for my comfort, according to thy word unto thy servant.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-77"><span class="num-verse-rw">77</span> Let thy tender mercies come unto me, that I may live: for thy law is my delight.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-78"><span class="num-verse-rw">78</span> Let the proud be ashamed; for they dealt perversely with me without a cause: but I will meditate in thy precepts.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-79"><span class="num-verse-rw">79</span> Let those that fear thee turn unto me, and those that have known thy testimonies.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-80"><span class="num-verse-rw">80</span> Let my heart be sound in thy statutes; that I be not ashamed.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-81"><span class="num-verse-rw">81</span> My soul fainteth for thy salvation: but I hope in thy word.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-82"><span class="num-verse-rw">82</span> Mine eyes fail for thy word, saying, When wilt thou comfort me?
         </p><p id="psalms-119-83"><span class="num-verse-rw">83</span> For I am become like a bottle in the smoke; yet do I not forget thy statutes.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-84"><span class="num-verse-rw">84</span> How many are the days of thy servant? when wilt thou execute judgment on them that persecute me?
         </p><p id="psalms-119-85"><span class="num-verse-rw">85</span> The proud have digged pits for me, which are not after thy law.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-86"><span class="num-verse-rw">86</span> All thy commandments are faithful: they persecute me wrongfully; help thou me.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-87"><span class="num-verse-rw">87</span> They had almost consumed me upon earth; but I forsook not thy precepts.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-88"><span class="num-verse-rw">88</span> Quicken me after thy lovingkindness; so shall I keep the testimony of thy mouth.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-89"><span class="num-verse-rw">89</span> For ever, O LORD, thy word is settled in heaven.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-90"><span class="num-verse-rw">90</span> Thy faithfulness is unto all generations: thou hast established the earth, and it abideth.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-91"><span class="num-verse-rw">91</span> They continue this day according to thine ordinances: for all are thy servants.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-92"><span class="num-verse-rw">92</span> Unless thy law had been my delights, I should then have perished in mine affliction.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-93"><span class="num-verse-rw">93</span> I will never forget thy precepts: for with them thou hast quickened me.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-94"><span class="num-verse-rw">94</span> I am thine, save me: for I have sought thy precepts.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-95"><span class="num-verse-rw">95</span> The wicked have waited for me to destroy me: but I will consider thy testimonies.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-96"><span class="num-verse-rw">96</span> I have seen an end of all perfection: but thy commandment is exceeding broad.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-97"><span class="num-verse-rw">97</span> O how I love thy law! it is my meditation all the day.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-98"><span class="num-verse-rw">98</span> Thou through thy commandments hast made me wiser than mine enemies: for they are ever with me.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-99"><span class="num-verse-rw">99</span> I have more understanding than all my teachers: for thy testimonies are my meditation.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-100"><span class="num-verse-rw">100</span> I understand more than the ancients, because I keep thy precepts.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-101"><span class="num-verse-rw">101</span> I have refrained my feet from every evil way, that I might keep thy word.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-102"><span class="num-verse-rw">102</span> I have not departed from thy judgments: for thou hast taught me.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-103"><span class="num-verse-rw">103</span> How sweet are thy words unto my taste! yea, sweeter than honey to my mouth!
         </p><p id="psalms-119-104"><span class="num-verse-rw">104</span> Through thy precepts I get understanding: therefore I hate every false way.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-105"><span class="num-verse-rw">105</span> Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-106"><span class="num-verse-rw">106</span> I have sworn, and I will perform it, that I will keep thy righteous judgments.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-107"><span class="num-verse-rw">107</span> I am afflicted very much: quicken me, O LORD, according unto thy word.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-108"><span class="num-verse-rw">108</span> Accept, I beseech thee, the freewill offerings of my mouth, O LORD, and teach me thy judgments.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-109"><span class="num-verse-rw">109</span> My soul is continually in my hand: yet do I not forget thy law.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-110"><span class="num-verse-rw">110</span> The wicked have laid a snare for me: yet I erred not from thy precepts.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-111"><span class="num-verse-rw">111</span> Thy testimonies have I taken as an heritage for ever: for they are the rejoicing of my heart.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-112"><span class="num-verse-rw">112</span> I have inclined mine heart to perform thy statutes alway, even unto the end.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-113"><span class="num-verse-rw">113</span> I hate vain thoughts: but thy law do I love.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-114"><span class="num-verse-rw">114</span> Thou art my hiding place and my shield: I hope in thy word.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-115"><span class="num-verse-rw">115</span> Depart from me, ye evildoers: for I will keep the commandments of my God.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-116"><span class="num-verse-rw">116</span> Uphold me according unto thy word, that I may live: and let me not be ashamed of my hope.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-117"><span class="num-verse-rw">117</span> Hold thou me up, and I shall be safe: and I will have respect unto thy statutes continually.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-118"><span class="num-verse-rw">118</span> Thou hast trodden down all them that err from thy statutes: for their deceit is falsehood.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-119"><span class="num-verse-rw">119</span> Thou puttest away all the wicked of the earth like dross: therefore I love thy testimonies.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-120"><span class="num-verse-rw">120</span> My flesh trembleth for fear of thee; and I am afraid of thy judgments.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-121"><span class="num-verse-rw">121</span> I have done judgment and justice: leave me not to mine oppressors.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-122"><span class="num-verse-rw">122</span> Be surety for thy servant for good: let not the proud oppress me.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-123"><span class="num-verse-rw">123</span> Mine eyes fail for thy salvation, and for the word of thy righteousness.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-124"><span class="num-verse-rw">124</span> Deal with thy servant according unto thy mercy, and teach me thy statutes.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-125"><span class="num-verse-rw">125</span> I am thy servant; give me understanding, that I may know thy testimonies.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-126"><span class="num-verse-rw">126</span> It is time for thee, LORD, to work: for they have made void thy law.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-127"><span class="num-verse-rw">127</span> Therefore I love thy commandments above gold; yea, above fine gold.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-128"><span class="num-verse-rw">128</span> Therefore I esteem all thy precepts concerning all things to be right; and I hate every false way.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-129"><span class="num-verse-rw">129</span> Thy testimonies are wonderful: therefore doth my soul keep them.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-130"><span class="num-verse-rw">130</span> The entrance of thy words giveth light; it giveth understanding unto the simple.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-131"><span class="num-verse-rw">131</span> I opened my mouth, and panted: for I longed for thy commandments.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-132"><span class="num-verse-rw">132</span> Look thou upon me, and be merciful unto me, as thou usest to do unto those that love thy name.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-133"><span class="num-verse-rw">133</span> Order my steps in thy word: and let not any iniquity have dominion over me.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-134"><span class="num-verse-rw">134</span> Deliver me from the oppression of man: so will I keep thy precepts.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-135"><span class="num-verse-rw">135</span> Make thy face to shine upon thy servant; and teach me thy statutes.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-136"><span class="num-verse-rw">136</span> Rivers of waters run down mine eyes, because they keep not thy law.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-137"><span class="num-verse-rw">137</span> Righteous art thou, O LORD, and upright are thy judgments.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-138"><span class="num-verse-rw">138</span> Thy testimonies that thou hast commanded are righteous and very faithful.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-139"><span class="num-verse-rw">139</span> My zeal hath consumed me, because mine enemies have forgotten thy words.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-140"><span class="num-verse-rw">140</span> Thy word is very pure: therefore thy servant loveth it.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-141"><span class="num-verse-rw">141</span> I am small and despised: yet do not I forget thy precepts.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-142"><span class="num-verse-rw">142</span> Thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and thy law is the truth.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-143"><span class="num-verse-rw">143</span> Trouble and anguish have taken hold on me: yet thy commandments are my delights.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-144"><span class="num-verse-rw">144</span> The righteousness of thy testimonies is everlasting: give me understanding, and I shall live.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-145"><span class="num-verse-rw">145</span> I cried with my whole heart; hear me, O LORD: I will keep thy statutes.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-146"><span class="num-verse-rw">146</span> I cried unto thee; save me, and I shall keep thy testimonies.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-147"><span class="num-verse-rw">147</span> I prevented the dawning of the morning, and cried: I hoped in thy word.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-148"><span class="num-verse-rw">148</span> Mine eyes prevent the night watches, that I might meditate in thy word.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-149"><span class="num-verse-rw">149</span> Hear my voice according unto thy lovingkindness: O LORD, quicken me according to thy judgment.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-150"><span class="num-verse-rw">150</span> They draw nigh that follow after mischief: they are far from thy law.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-151"><span class="num-verse-rw">151</span> Thou art near, O LORD; and all thy commandments are truth.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-152"><span class="num-verse-rw">152</span> Concerning thy testimonies, I have known of old that thou hast founded them for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-153"><span class="num-verse-rw">153</span> Consider mine affliction, and deliver me: for I do not forget thy law.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-154"><span class="num-verse-rw">154</span> Plead my cause, and deliver me: quicken me according to thy word.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-155"><span class="num-verse-rw">155</span> Salvation is far from the wicked: for they seek not thy statutes.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-156"><span class="num-verse-rw">156</span> Great are thy tender mercies, O LORD: quicken me according to thy judgments.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-157"><span class="num-verse-rw">157</span> Many are my persecutors and mine enemies; yet do I not decline from thy testimonies.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-158"><span class="num-verse-rw">158</span> I beheld the transgressors, and was grieved; because they kept not thy word.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-159"><span class="num-verse-rw">159</span> Consider how I love thy precepts: quicken me, O LORD, according to thy lovingkindness.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-160"><span class="num-verse-rw">160</span> Thy word is true from the beginning: and every one of thy righteous judgments endureth for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-161"><span class="num-verse-rw">161</span> Princes have persecuted me without a cause: but my heart standeth in awe of thy word.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-162"><span class="num-verse-rw">162</span> I rejoice at thy word, as one that findeth great spoil.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-163"><span class="num-verse-rw">163</span> I hate and abhor lying: but thy law do I love.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-164"><span class="num-verse-rw">164</span> Seven times a day do I praise thee because of thy righteous judgments.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-165"><span class="num-verse-rw">165</span> Great peace have they which love thy law: and nothing shall offend them.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-166"><span class="num-verse-rw">166</span> LORD, I have hoped for thy salvation, and done thy commandments.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-167"><span class="num-verse-rw">167</span> My soul hath kept thy testimonies; and I love them exceedingly.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-168"><span class="num-verse-rw">168</span> I have kept thy precepts and thy testimonies: for all my ways are before thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-169"><span class="num-verse-rw">169</span> Let my cry come near before thee, O LORD: give me understanding according to thy word.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-170"><span class="num-verse-rw">170</span> Let my supplication come before thee: deliver me according to thy word.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-171"><span class="num-verse-rw">171</span> My lips shall utter praise, when thou hast taught me thy statutes.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-172"><span class="num-verse-rw">172</span> My tongue shall speak of thy word: for all thy commandments are righteousness.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-173"><span class="num-verse-rw">173</span> Let thine hand help me; for I have chosen thy precepts.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-174"><span class="num-verse-rw">174</span> I have longed for thy salvation, O LORD; and thy law is my delight.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-175"><span class="num-verse-rw">175</span> Let my soul live, and it shall praise thee; and let thy judgments help me.
         </p><p id="psalms-119-176"><span class="num-verse-rw">176</span> I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek thy servant; for I do not forget thy commandments.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-120">Psalm 120</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-120-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> In my distress I cried unto the LORD, and he heard me.
         </p><p id="psalms-120-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Deliver my soul, O LORD, from lying lips, and from a deceitful tongue.
         </p><p id="psalms-120-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> What shall be given unto thee? or what shall be done unto thee, thou false tongue?
         </p><p id="psalms-120-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Sharp arrows of the mighty, with coals of juniper.
         </p><p id="psalms-120-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Woe is me, that I sojourn in Mesech, that I dwell in the tents of Kedar!
         </p><p id="psalms-120-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> My soul hath long dwelt with him that hateth peace.
         </p><p id="psalms-120-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> I am for peace: but when I speak, they are for war.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-121">Psalm 121</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-121-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, from whence cometh my help.
         </p><p id="psalms-121-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> My help cometh from the LORD, which made heaven and earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-121-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> He will not suffer thy foot to be moved: he that keepeth thee will not slumber.
         </p><p id="psalms-121-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep.
         </p><p id="psalms-121-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> The LORD is thy keeper: the LORD is thy shade upon thy right hand.
         </p><p id="psalms-121-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> The sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the moon by night.
         </p><p id="psalms-121-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> The LORD shall preserve thee from all evil: he shall preserve thy soul.
         </p><p id="psalms-121-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> The LORD shall preserve thy going out and thy coming in from this time forth, and even for evermore.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-122">Psalm 122</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-122-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go into the house of the LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-122-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Our feet shall stand within thy gates, O Jerusalem.
         </p><p id="psalms-122-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Jerusalem is builded as a city that is compact together:
         </p><p id="psalms-122-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Whither the tribes go up, the tribes of the LORD, unto the testimony of Israel, to give thanks unto the name of the LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-122-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> For there are set thrones of judgment, the thrones of the house of David.
         </p><p id="psalms-122-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Pray for the peace of Jerusalem: they shall prosper that love thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-122-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Peace be within thy walls, and prosperity within thy palaces.
         </p><p id="psalms-122-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> For my brethren and companions' sakes, I will now say, Peace be within thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-122-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Because of the house of the LORD our God I will seek thy good.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-123">Psalm 123</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-123-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Unto thee lift I up mine eyes, O thou that dwellest in the heavens.
         </p><p id="psalms-123-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Behold, as the eyes of servants look unto the hand of their masters, and as the eyes of a maiden unto the hand of her mistress; so our eyes wait upon the LORD our God, until that he have mercy upon us.
         </p><p id="psalms-123-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Have mercy upon us, O LORD, have mercy upon us: for we are exceedingly filled with contempt.
         </p><p id="psalms-123-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Our soul is exceedingly filled with the scorning of those that are at ease, and with the contempt of the proud.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-124">Psalm 124</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-124-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> If it had not been the LORD who was on our side, now may Israel say;
         </p><p id="psalms-124-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> If it had not been the LORD who was on our side, when men rose up against us:
         </p><p id="psalms-124-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Then they had swallowed us up quick, when their wrath was kindled against us:
         </p><p id="psalms-124-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Then the waters had overwhelmed us, the stream had gone over our soul:
         </p><p id="psalms-124-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Then the proud waters had gone over our soul.
         </p><p id="psalms-124-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Blessed be the LORD, who hath not given us as a prey to their teeth.
         </p><p id="psalms-124-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Our soul is escaped as a bird out of the snare of the fowlers: the snare is broken, and we are escaped.
         </p><p id="psalms-124-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Our help is in the name of the LORD, who made heaven and earth.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-125">Psalm 125</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-125-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> They that trust in the LORD shall be as mount Zion, which cannot be removed, but abideth for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-125-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> As the mountains are round about Jerusalem, so the LORD is round about his people from henceforth even for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-125-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> For the rod of the wicked shall not rest upon the lot of the righteous; lest the righteous put forth their hands unto iniquity.
         </p><p id="psalms-125-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Do good, O LORD, unto those that be good, and to them that are upright in their hearts.
         </p><p id="psalms-125-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> As for such as turn aside unto their crooked ways, the LORD shall lead them forth with the workers of iniquity: but peace shall be upon Israel.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-126">Psalm 126</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-126-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> When the LORD turned again the captivity of Zion, we were like them that dream.
         </p><p id="psalms-126-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Then was our mouth filled with laughter, and our tongue with singing: then said they among the heathen, The LORD hath done great things for them.
         </p><p id="psalms-126-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> The LORD hath done great things for us; whereof we are glad.
         </p><p id="psalms-126-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Turn again our captivity, O LORD, as the streams in the south.
         </p><p id="psalms-126-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> They that sow in tears shall reap in joy.
         </p><p id="psalms-126-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-127">Psalm 127</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-127-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Except the LORD build the house, they labour in vain that build it: except the LORD keep the city, the watchman waketh but in vain.
         </p><p id="psalms-127-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> It is vain for you to rise up early, to sit up late, to eat the bread of sorrows: for so he giveth his beloved sleep.
         </p><p id="psalms-127-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Lo, children are an heritage of the LORD: and the fruit of the womb is his reward.
         </p><p id="psalms-127-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> As arrows are in the hand of a mighty man; so are children of the youth.
         </p><p id="psalms-127-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them: they shall not be ashamed, but they shall speak with the enemies in the gate.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-128">Psalm 128</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-128-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Blessed is every one that feareth the LORD; that walketh in his ways.
         </p><p id="psalms-128-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> For thou shalt eat the labour of thine hands: happy shalt thou be, and it shall be well with thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-128-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Thy wife shall be as a fruitful vine by the sides of thine house: thy children like olive plants round about thy table.
         </p><p id="psalms-128-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Behold, that thus shall the man be blessed that feareth the LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-128-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> The LORD shall bless thee out of Zion: and thou shalt see the good of Jerusalem all the days of thy life.
         </p><p id="psalms-128-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Yea, thou shalt see thy children's children, and peace upon Israel.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-129">Psalm 129</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-129-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Many a time have they afflicted me from my youth, may Israel now say:
         </p><p id="psalms-129-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Many a time have they afflicted me from my youth: yet they have not prevailed against me.
         </p><p id="psalms-129-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> The plowers plowed upon my back: they made long their furrows.
         </p><p id="psalms-129-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> The LORD is righteous: he hath cut asunder the cords of the wicked.
         </p><p id="psalms-129-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Let them all be confounded and turned back that hate Zion.
         </p><p id="psalms-129-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Let them be as the grass upon the housetops, which withereth afore it groweth up:
         </p><p id="psalms-129-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Wherewith the mower filleth not his hand; nor he that bindeth sheaves his bosom.
         </p><p id="psalms-129-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Neither do they which go by say, The blessing of the LORD be upon you: we bless you in the name of the LORD.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-130">Psalm 130</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-130-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Out of the depths have I cried unto thee, O LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-130-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Lord, hear my voice: let thine ears be attentive to the voice of my supplications.
         </p><p id="psalms-130-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> If thou, LORD, shouldest mark iniquities, O Lord, who shall stand?
         </p><p id="psalms-130-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> But there is forgiveness with thee, that thou mayest be feared.
         </p><p id="psalms-130-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> I wait for the LORD, my soul doth wait, and in his word do I hope.
         </p><p id="psalms-130-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> My soul waiteth for the Lord more than they that watch for the morning: I say, more than they that watch for the morning.
         </p><p id="psalms-130-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Let Israel hope in the LORD: for with the LORD there is mercy, and with him is plenteous redemption.
         </p><p id="psalms-130-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> And he shall redeem Israel from all his iniquities.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-131">Psalm 131</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-131-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Lord, my heart is not haughty, nor mine eyes lofty: neither do I exercise myself in great matters, or in things too high for me.
         </p><p id="psalms-131-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Surely I have behaved and quieted myself, as a child that is weaned of his mother: my soul is even as a weaned child.
         </p><p id="psalms-131-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Let Israel hope in the LORD from henceforth and for ever.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-132">Psalm 132</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-132-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Lord, remember David, and all his afflictions:
         </p><p id="psalms-132-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> How he sware unto the LORD, and vowed unto the mighty God of Jacob;
         </p><p id="psalms-132-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Surely I will not come into the tabernacle of my house, nor go up into my bed;
         </p><p id="psalms-132-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> I will not give sleep to mine eyes, or slumber to mine eyelids,
         </p><p id="psalms-132-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Until I find out a place for the LORD, an habitation for the mighty God of Jacob.
         </p><p id="psalms-132-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Lo, we heard of it at Ephratah: we found it in the fields of the wood.
         </p><p id="psalms-132-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> We will go into his tabernacles: we will worship at his footstool.
         </p><p id="psalms-132-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Arise, O LORD, into thy rest; thou, and the ark of thy strength.
         </p><p id="psalms-132-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Let thy priests be clothed with righteousness; and let thy saints shout for joy.
         </p><p id="psalms-132-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> For thy servant David's sake turn not away the face of thine anointed.
         </p><p id="psalms-132-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> The LORD hath sworn in truth unto David; he will not turn from it; Of the fruit of thy body will I set upon thy throne.
         </p><p id="psalms-132-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> If thy children will keep my covenant and my testimony that I shall teach them, their children shall also sit upon thy throne for evermore.
         </p><p id="psalms-132-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> For the LORD hath chosen Zion; he hath desired it for his habitation.
         </p><p id="psalms-132-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> This is my rest for ever: here will I dwell; for I have desired it.
         </p><p id="psalms-132-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> I will abundantly bless her provision: I will satisfy her poor with bread.
         </p><p id="psalms-132-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> I will also clothe her priests with salvation: and her saints shall shout aloud for joy.
         </p><p id="psalms-132-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> There will I make the horn of David to bud: I have ordained a lamp for mine anointed.
         </p><p id="psalms-132-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> His enemies will I clothe with shame: but upon himself shall his crown flourish.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-133">Psalm 133</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-133-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity!
         </p><p id="psalms-133-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> It is like the precious ointment upon the head, that ran down upon the beard, even Aaron's beard: that went down to the skirts of his garments;
         </p><p id="psalms-133-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> As the dew of Hermon, and as the dew that descended upon the mountains of Zion: for there the LORD commanded the blessing, even life for evermore.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-134">Psalm 134</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-134-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Behold, bless ye the LORD, all ye servants of the LORD, which by night stand in the house of the LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-134-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Lift up your hands in the sanctuary, and bless the LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-134-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> The LORD that made heaven and earth bless thee out of Zion.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-135">Psalm 135</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-135-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Praise ye the LORD. Praise ye the name of the LORD; praise him, O ye servants of the LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-135-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Ye that stand in the house of the LORD, in the courts of the house of our God.
         </p><p id="psalms-135-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Praise the LORD; for the LORD is good: sing praises unto his name; for it is pleasant.
         </p><p id="psalms-135-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> For the LORD hath chosen Jacob unto himself, and Israel for his peculiar treasure.
         </p><p id="psalms-135-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> For I know that the LORD is great, and that our Lord is above all gods.
         </p><p id="psalms-135-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Whatsoever the LORD pleased, that did he in heaven, and in earth, in the seas, and all deep places.
         </p><p id="psalms-135-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> He causeth the vapours to ascend from the ends of the earth; he maketh lightnings for the rain; he bringeth the wind out of his treasuries.
         </p><p id="psalms-135-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Who smote the firstborn of Egypt, both of man and beast.
         </p><p id="psalms-135-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Who sent tokens and wonders into the midst of thee, O Egypt, upon Pharaoh, and upon all his servants.
         </p><p id="psalms-135-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Who smote great nations, and slew mighty kings;
         </p><p id="psalms-135-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Sihon king of the Amorites, and Og king of Bashan, and all the kingdoms of Canaan:
         </p><p id="psalms-135-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> And gave their land for an heritage, an heritage unto Israel his people.
         </p><p id="psalms-135-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Thy name, O LORD, endureth for ever; and thy memorial, O LORD, throughout all generations.
         </p><p id="psalms-135-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> For the LORD will judge his people, and he will repent himself concerning his servants.
         </p><p id="psalms-135-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> The idols of the heathen are silver and gold, the work of men's hands.
         </p><p id="psalms-135-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> They have mouths, but they speak not; eyes have they, but they see not;
         </p><p id="psalms-135-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> They have ears, but they hear not; neither is there any breath in their mouths.
         </p><p id="psalms-135-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> They that make them are like unto them: so is every one that trusteth in them.
         </p><p id="psalms-135-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Bless the LORD, O house of Israel: bless the LORD, O house of Aaron:
         </p><p id="psalms-135-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Bless the LORD, O house of Levi: ye that fear the LORD, bless the LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-135-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> Blessed be the LORD out of Zion, which dwelleth at Jerusalem. Praise ye the LORD.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-136">Psalm 136</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-136-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> O give thanks unto the LORD; for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-136-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> O give thanks unto the God of gods: for his mercy endureth for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-136-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> O give thanks to the Lord of lords: for his mercy endureth for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-136-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> To him who alone doeth great wonders: for his mercy endureth for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-136-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> To him that by wisdom made the heavens: for his mercy endureth for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-136-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> To him that stretched out the earth above the waters: for his mercy endureth for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-136-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> To him that made great lights: for his mercy endureth for ever:
         </p><p id="psalms-136-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> The sun to rule by day: for his mercy endureth for ever:
         </p><p id="psalms-136-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> The moon and stars to rule by night: for his mercy endureth for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-136-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> To him that smote Egypt in their firstborn: for his mercy endureth for ever:
         </p><p id="psalms-136-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> And brought out Israel from among them: for his mercy endureth for ever:
         </p><p id="psalms-136-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> With a strong hand, and with a stretched out arm: for his mercy endureth for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-136-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> To him which divided the Red sea into parts: for his mercy endureth for ever:
         </p><p id="psalms-136-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> And made Israel to pass through the midst of it: for his mercy endureth for ever:
         </p><p id="psalms-136-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> But overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red sea: for his mercy endureth for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-136-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> To him which led his people through the wilderness: for his mercy endureth for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-136-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> To him which smote great kings: for his mercy endureth for ever:
         </p><p id="psalms-136-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> And slew famous kings: for his mercy endureth for ever:
         </p><p id="psalms-136-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Sihon king of the Amorites: for his mercy endureth for ever:
         </p><p id="psalms-136-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> And Og the king of Bashan: for his mercy endureth for ever:
         </p><p id="psalms-136-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> And gave their land for an heritage: for his mercy endureth for ever:
         </p><p id="psalms-136-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> Even an heritage unto Israel his servant: for his mercy endureth for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-136-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> Who remembered us in our low estate: for his mercy endureth for ever:
         </p><p id="psalms-136-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> And hath redeemed us from our enemies: for his mercy endureth for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-136-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> Who giveth food to all flesh: for his mercy endureth for ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-136-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> O give thanks unto the God of heaven: for his mercy endureth for ever.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-137">Psalm 137</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-137-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> By the rivers of Babylon, there we sat down, yea, we wept, when we remembered Zion.
         </p><p id="psalms-137-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> We hanged our harps upon the willows in the midst thereof.
         </p><p id="psalms-137-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> For there they that carried us away captive required of us a song; and they that wasted us required of us mirth, saying, Sing us one of the songs of Zion.
         </p><p id="psalms-137-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> How shall we sing the LORD's song in a strange land?
         </p><p id="psalms-137-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> If I forget thee, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget her cunning.
         </p><p id="psalms-137-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> If I do not remember thee, let my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth; if I prefer not Jerusalem above my chief joy.
         </p><p id="psalms-137-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Remember, O LORD, the children of Edom in the day of Jerusalem; who said, Rase it, rase it, even to the foundation thereof.
         </p><p id="psalms-137-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> O daughter of Babylon, who art to be destroyed; happy shall he be, that rewardeth thee as thou hast served us.
         </p><p id="psalms-137-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Happy shall he be, that taketh and dasheth thy little ones against the stones.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-138">Psalm 138</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-138-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> I will praise thee with my whole heart: before the gods will I sing praise unto thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-138-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> I will worship toward thy holy temple, and praise thy name for thy lovingkindness and for thy truth: for thou hast magnified thy word above all thy name.
         </p><p id="psalms-138-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> In the day when I cried thou answeredst me, and strengthenedst me with strength in my soul.
         </p><p id="psalms-138-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> All the kings of the earth shall praise thee, O LORD, when they hear the words of thy mouth.
         </p><p id="psalms-138-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Yea, they shall sing in the ways of the LORD: for great is the glory of the LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-138-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Though the LORD be high, yet hath he respect unto the lowly: but the proud he knoweth afar off.
         </p><p id="psalms-138-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Though I walk in the midst of trouble, thou wilt revive me: thou shalt stretch forth thine hand against the wrath of mine enemies, and thy right hand shall save me.
         </p><p id="psalms-138-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> The LORD will perfect that which concerneth me: thy mercy, O LORD, endureth for ever: forsake not the works of thine own hands.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-139">Psalm 139</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-139-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> O lord, thou hast searched me, and known me.
         </p><p id="psalms-139-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Thou knowest my downsitting and mine uprising, thou understandest my thought afar off.
         </p><p id="psalms-139-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Thou compassest my path and my lying down, and art acquainted with all my ways.
         </p><p id="psalms-139-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> For there is not a word in my tongue, but, lo, O LORD, thou knowest it altogether.
         </p><p id="psalms-139-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Thou hast beset me behind and before, and laid thine hand upon me.
         </p><p id="psalms-139-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is high, I cannot attain unto it.
         </p><p id="psalms-139-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Whither shall I go from thy spirit? or whither shall I flee from thy presence?
         </p><p id="psalms-139-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there: if I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there.
         </p><p id="psalms-139-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> If I take the wings of the morning, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea;
         </p><p id="psalms-139-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me.
         </p><p id="psalms-139-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me; even the night shall be light about me.
         </p><p id="psalms-139-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Yea, the darkness hideth not from thee; but the night shineth as the day: the darkness and the light are both alike to thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-139-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> For thou hast possessed my reins: thou hast covered me in my mother's womb.
         </p><p id="psalms-139-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> I will praise thee; for I am fearfully and wonderfully made: marvellous are thy works; and that my soul knoweth right well.
         </p><p id="psalms-139-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> My substance was not hid from thee, when I was made in secret, and curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-139-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Thine eyes did see my substance, yet being unperfect; and in thy book all my members were written, which in continuance were fashioned, when as yet there was none of them.
         </p><p id="psalms-139-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> How precious also are thy thoughts unto me, O God! how great is the sum of them!
         </p><p id="psalms-139-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> If I should count them, they are more in number than the sand: when I awake, I am still with thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-139-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Surely thou wilt slay the wicked, O God: depart from me therefore, ye bloody men.
         </p><p id="psalms-139-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> For they speak against thee wickedly, and thine enemies take thy name in vain.
         </p><p id="psalms-139-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> Do not I hate them, O LORD, that hate thee? and am not I grieved with those that rise up against thee?
         </p><p id="psalms-139-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> I hate them with perfect hatred: I count them mine enemies.
         </p><p id="psalms-139-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> Search me, O God, and know my heart: try me, and know my thoughts:
         </p><p id="psalms-139-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> And see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-140">Psalm 140</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-140-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Deliver me, O LORD, from the evil man: preserve me from the violent man;
         </p><p id="psalms-140-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Which imagine mischiefs in their heart; continually are they gathered together for war.
         </p><p id="psalms-140-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> They have sharpened their tongues like a serpent; adders' poison is under their lips. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-140-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Keep me, O LORD, from the hands of the wicked; preserve me from the violent man; who have purposed to overthrow my goings.
         </p><p id="psalms-140-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> The proud have hid a snare for me, and cords; they have spread a net by the wayside; they have set gins for me. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-140-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> I said unto the LORD, Thou art my God: hear the voice of my supplications, O LORD.
         </p><p id="psalms-140-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> O GOD the Lord, the strength of my salvation, thou hast covered my head in the day of battle.
         </p><p id="psalms-140-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Grant not, O LORD, the desires of the wicked: further not his wicked device; lest they exalt themselves. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-140-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> As for the head of those that compass me about, let the mischief of their own lips cover them.
         </p><p id="psalms-140-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Let burning coals fall upon them: let them be cast into the fire; into deep pits, that they rise not up again.
         </p><p id="psalms-140-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Let not an evil speaker be established in the earth: evil shall hunt the violent man to overthrow him.
         </p><p id="psalms-140-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> I know that the LORD will maintain the cause of the afflicted, and the right of the poor.
         </p><p id="psalms-140-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Surely the righteous shall give thanks unto thy name: the upright shall dwell in thy presence.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-141">Psalm 141</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-141-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Lord, I cry unto thee: make haste unto me; give ear unto my voice, when I cry unto thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-141-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Let my prayer be set forth before thee as incense; and the lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice.
         </p><p id="psalms-141-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Set a watch, O LORD, before my mouth; keep the door of my lips.
         </p><p id="psalms-141-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Incline not my heart to any evil thing, to practise wicked works with men that work iniquity: and let me not eat of their dainties.
         </p><p id="psalms-141-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Let the righteous smite me; it shall be a kindness: and let him reprove me; it shall be an excellent oil, which shall not break my head: for yet my prayer also shall be in their calamities.
         </p><p id="psalms-141-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> When their judges are overthrown in stony places, they shall hear my words; for they are sweet.
         </p><p id="psalms-141-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Our bones are scattered at the grave's mouth, as when one cutteth and cleaveth wood upon the earth.
         </p><p id="psalms-141-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> But mine eyes are unto thee, O GOD the Lord: in thee is my trust; leave not my soul destitute.
         </p><p id="psalms-141-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Keep me from the snares which they have laid for me, and the gins of the workers of iniquity.
         </p><p id="psalms-141-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Let the wicked fall into their own nets, whilst that I withal escape.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-142">Psalm 142</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-142-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> I cried unto the LORD with my voice; with my voice unto the LORD did I make my supplication.
         </p><p id="psalms-142-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> I poured out my complaint before him; I shewed before him my trouble.
         </p><p id="psalms-142-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> When my spirit was overwhelmed within me, then thou knewest my path. In the way wherein I walked have they privily laid a snare for me.
         </p><p id="psalms-142-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> I looked on my right hand, and beheld, but there was no man that would know me: refuge failed me; no man cared for my soul.
         </p><p id="psalms-142-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> I cried unto thee, O LORD: I said, Thou art my refuge and my portion in the land of the living.
         </p><p id="psalms-142-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Attend unto my cry; for I am brought very low: deliver me from my persecutors; for they are stronger than I.
         </p><p id="psalms-142-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Bring my soul out of prison, that I may praise thy name: the righteous shall compass me about; for thou shalt deal bountifully with me.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-143">Psalm 143</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-143-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Hear my prayer, O LORD, give ear to my supplications: in thy faithfulness answer me, and in thy righteousness.
         </p><p id="psalms-143-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> And enter not into judgment with thy servant: for in thy sight shall no man living be justified.
         </p><p id="psalms-143-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> For the enemy hath persecuted my soul; he hath smitten my life down to the ground; he hath made me to dwell in darkness, as those that have been long dead.
         </p><p id="psalms-143-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Therefore is my spirit overwhelmed within me; my heart within me is desolate.
         </p><p id="psalms-143-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> I remember the days of old; I meditate on all thy works; I muse on the work of thy hands.
         </p><p id="psalms-143-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> I stretch forth my hands unto thee: my soul thirsteth after thee, as a thirsty land. Selah.
         </p><p id="psalms-143-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Hear me speedily, O LORD: my spirit faileth: hide not thy face from me, lest I be like unto them that go down into the pit.
         </p><p id="psalms-143-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Cause me to hear thy lovingkindness in the morning; for in thee do I trust: cause me to know the way wherein I should walk; for I lift up my soul unto thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-143-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Deliver me, O LORD, from mine enemies: I flee unto thee to hide me.
         </p><p id="psalms-143-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Teach me to do thy will; for thou art my God: thy spirit is good; lead me into the land of uprightness.
         </p><p id="psalms-143-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Quicken me, O LORD, for thy name's sake: for thy righteousness' sake bring my soul out of trouble.
         </p><p id="psalms-143-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> And of thy mercy cut off mine enemies, and destroy all them that afflict my soul: for I am thy servant.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-144">Psalm 144</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-144-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Blessed be the LORD my strength which teacheth my hands to war, and my fingers to fight:
         </p><p id="psalms-144-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> My goodness, and my fortress; my high tower, and my deliverer; my shield, and he in whom I trust; who subdueth my people under me.
         </p><p id="psalms-144-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> LORD, what is man, that thou takest knowledge of him! or the son of man, that thou makest account of him!
         </p><p id="psalms-144-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Man is like to vanity: his days are as a shadow that passeth away.
         </p><p id="psalms-144-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Bow thy heavens, O LORD, and come down: touch the mountains, and they shall smoke.
         </p><p id="psalms-144-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Cast forth lightning, and scatter them: shoot out thine arrows, and destroy them.
         </p><p id="psalms-144-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Send thine hand from above; rid me, and deliver me out of great waters, from the hand of strange children;
         </p><p id="psalms-144-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Whose mouth speaketh vanity, and their right hand is a right hand of falsehood.
         </p><p id="psalms-144-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> I will sing a new song unto thee, O God: upon a psaltery and an instrument of ten strings will I sing praises unto thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-144-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> It is he that giveth salvation unto kings: who delivereth David his servant from the hurtful sword.
         </p><p id="psalms-144-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Rid me, and deliver me from the hand of strange children, whose mouth speaketh vanity, and their right hand is a right hand of falsehood:
         </p><p id="psalms-144-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> That our sons may be as plants grown up in their youth; that our daughters may be as corner stones, polished after the similitude of a palace:
         </p><p id="psalms-144-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> That our garners may be full, affording all manner of store: that our sheep may bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our streets:
         </p><p id="psalms-144-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> That our oxen may be strong to labour; that there be no breaking in, nor going out; that there be no complaining in our streets.
         </p><p id="psalms-144-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Happy is that people, that is in such a case: yea, happy is that people, whose God is the LORD.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-145">Psalm 145</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-145-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> I will extol thee, my God, O king; and I will bless thy name for ever and ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-145-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Every day will I bless thee; and I will praise thy name for ever and ever.
         </p><p id="psalms-145-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised; and his greatness is unsearchable.
         </p><p id="psalms-145-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> One generation shall praise thy works to another, and shall declare thy mighty acts.
         </p><p id="psalms-145-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> I will speak of the glorious honour of thy majesty, and of thy wondrous works.
         </p><p id="psalms-145-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> And men shall speak of the might of thy terrible acts: and I will declare thy greatness.
         </p><p id="psalms-145-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> They shall abundantly utter the memory of thy great goodness, and shall sing of thy righteousness.
         </p><p id="psalms-145-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> The LORD is gracious, and full of compassion; slow to anger, and of great mercy.
         </p><p id="psalms-145-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> The LORD is good to all: and his tender mercies are over all his works.
         </p><p id="psalms-145-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> All thy works shall praise thee, O LORD; and thy saints shall bless thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-145-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> They shall speak of the glory of thy kingdom, and talk of thy power;
         </p><p id="psalms-145-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> To make known to the sons of men his mighty acts, and the glorious majesty of his kingdom.
         </p><p id="psalms-145-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Thy kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and thy dominion endureth throughout all generations.
         </p><p id="psalms-145-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> The LORD upholdeth all that fall, and raiseth up all those that be bowed down.
         </p><p id="psalms-145-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> The eyes of all wait upon thee; and thou givest them their meat in due season.
         </p><p id="psalms-145-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Thou openest thine hand, and satisfiest the desire of every living thing.
         </p><p id="psalms-145-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> The LORD is righteous in all his ways, and holy in all his works.
         </p><p id="psalms-145-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> The LORD is nigh unto all them that call upon him, to all that call upon him in truth.
         </p><p id="psalms-145-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> He will fulfil the desire of them that fear him: he also will hear their cry, and will save them.
         </p><p id="psalms-145-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> The LORD preserveth all them that love him: but all the wicked will he destroy.
         </p><p id="psalms-145-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> My mouth shall speak the praise of the LORD: and let all flesh bless his holy name for ever and ever.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-146">Psalm 146</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-146-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Praise ye the LORD. Praise the LORD, O my soul.
         </p><p id="psalms-146-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> While I live will I praise the LORD: I will sing praises unto my God while I have any being.
         </p><p id="psalms-146-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Put not your trust in princes, nor in the son of man, in whom there is no help.
         </p><p id="psalms-146-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> His breath goeth forth, he returneth to his earth; in that very day his thoughts perish.
         </p><p id="psalms-146-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Happy is he that hath the God of Jacob for his help, whose hope is in the LORD his God:
         </p><p id="psalms-146-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Which made heaven, and earth, the sea, and all that therein is: which keepeth truth for ever:
         </p><p id="psalms-146-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Which executeth judgment for the oppressed: which giveth food to the hungry. The LORD looseth the prisoners:
         </p><p id="psalms-146-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> The LORD openeth the eyes of the blind: the LORD raiseth them that are bowed down: the LORD loveth the righteous:
         </p><p id="psalms-146-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> The LORD preserveth the strangers; he relieveth the fatherless and widow: but the way of the wicked he turneth upside down.
         </p><p id="psalms-146-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> The LORD shall reign for ever, even thy God, O Zion, unto all generations. Praise ye the LORD.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-147">Psalm 147</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-147-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Praise ye the LORD: for it is good to sing praises unto our God; for it is pleasant; and praise is comely.
         </p><p id="psalms-147-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> The LORD doth build up Jerusalem: he gathereth together the outcasts of Israel.
         </p><p id="psalms-147-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> He healeth the broken in heart, and bindeth up their wounds.
         </p><p id="psalms-147-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> He telleth the number of the stars; he calleth them all by their names.
         </p><p id="psalms-147-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Great is our Lord, and of great power: his understanding is infinite.
         </p><p id="psalms-147-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> The LORD lifteth up the meek: he casteth the wicked down to the ground.
         </p><p id="psalms-147-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Sing unto the LORD with thanksgiving; sing praise upon the harp unto our God:
         </p><p id="psalms-147-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Who covereth the heaven with clouds, who prepareth rain for the earth, who maketh grass to grow upon the mountains.
         </p><p id="psalms-147-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> He giveth to the beast his food, and to the young ravens which cry.
         </p><p id="psalms-147-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> He delighteth not in the strength of the horse: he taketh not pleasure in the legs of a man.
         </p><p id="psalms-147-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> The LORD taketh pleasure in them that fear him, in those that hope in his mercy.
         </p><p id="psalms-147-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Praise the LORD, O Jerusalem; praise thy God, O Zion.
         </p><p id="psalms-147-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> For he hath strengthened the bars of thy gates; he hath blessed thy children within thee.
         </p><p id="psalms-147-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> He maketh peace in thy borders, and filleth thee with the finest of the wheat.
         </p><p id="psalms-147-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> He sendeth forth his commandment upon earth: his word runneth very swiftly.
         </p><p id="psalms-147-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> He giveth snow like wool: he scattereth the hoarfrost like ashes.
         </p><p id="psalms-147-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> He casteth forth his ice like morsels: who can stand before his cold?
         </p><p id="psalms-147-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> He sendeth out his word, and melteth them: he causeth his wind to blow, and the waters flow.
         </p><p id="psalms-147-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> He sheweth his word unto Jacob, his statutes and his judgments unto Israel.
         </p><p id="psalms-147-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> He hath not dealt so with any nation: and as for his judgments, they have not known them. Praise ye the LORD.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-148">Psalm 148</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-148-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Praise ye the LORD. Praise ye the LORD from the heavens: praise him in the heights.
         </p><p id="psalms-148-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Praise ye him, all his angels: praise ye him, all his hosts.
         </p><p id="psalms-148-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Praise ye him, sun and moon: praise him, all ye stars of light.
         </p><p id="psalms-148-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Praise him, ye heavens of heavens, and ye waters that be above the heavens.
         </p><p id="psalms-148-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Let them praise the name of the LORD: for he commanded, and they were created.
         </p><p id="psalms-148-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> He hath also stablished them for ever and ever: he hath made a decree which shall not pass.
         </p><p id="psalms-148-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Praise the LORD from the earth, ye dragons, and all deeps:
         </p><p id="psalms-148-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Fire, and hail; snow, and vapours; stormy wind fulfilling his word:
         </p><p id="psalms-148-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Mountains, and all hills; fruitful trees, and all cedars:
         </p><p id="psalms-148-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Beasts, and all cattle; creeping things, and flying fowl:
         </p><p id="psalms-148-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Kings of the earth, and all people; princes, and all judges of the earth:
         </p><p id="psalms-148-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Both young men, and maidens; old men, and children:
         </p><p id="psalms-148-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Let them praise the name of the LORD: for his name alone is excellent; his glory is above the earth and heaven.
         </p><p id="psalms-148-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> He also exalteth the horn of his people, the praise of all his saints; even of the children of Israel, a people near unto him. Praise ye the LORD.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-149">Psalm 149</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-149-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Praise ye the LORD. Sing unto the LORD a new song, and his praise in the congregation of saints.
         </p><p id="psalms-149-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Let Israel rejoice in him that made him: let the children of Zion be joyful in their King.
         </p><p id="psalms-149-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Let them praise his name in the dance: let them sing praises unto him with the timbrel and harp.
         </p><p id="psalms-149-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> For the LORD taketh pleasure in his people: he will beautify the meek with salvation.
         </p><p id="psalms-149-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Let the saints be joyful in glory: let them sing aloud upon their beds.
         </p><p id="psalms-149-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Let the high praises of God be in their mouth, and a two-edged sword in their hand;
         </p><p id="psalms-149-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> To execute vengeance upon the heathen, and punishments upon the people;
         </p><p id="psalms-149-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> To bind their kings with chains, and their nobles with fetters of iron;
         </p><p id="psalms-149-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> To execute upon them the judgment written: this honour have all his saints. Praise ye the LORD.
         </p><h2 id="psalms-150">Psalm 150</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="psalms-150-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Praise ye the LORD. Praise God in his sanctuary: praise him in the firmament of his power.
         </p><p id="psalms-150-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Praise him for his mighty acts: praise him according to his excellent greatness.
         </p><p id="psalms-150-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Praise him with the sound of the trumpet: praise him with the psaltery and harp.
         </p><p id="psalms-150-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Praise him with the timbrel and dance: praise him with stringed instruments and organs.
         </p><p id="psalms-150-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Praise him upon the loud cymbals: praise him upon the high sounding cymbals.
         </p><p id="psalms-150-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Let every thing that hath breath praise the LORD. Praise ye the LORD.
         </p></section>
	</div>
    <script src="../../acme.js"></script></body></html>
