<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <title>Proverbs</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/kje-bible-books.css" type="text/css"/>
  </head>
  <body>
	<div class="galley-rw">
		<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw exclude-auto-rw page-open-auto-rw" id="Chapter20" epub:type="bodymatter chapter"><div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block21"><h1 id="proverbs">Proverbs</h1></div><h2 id="proverbs-1">Chapter 1</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-1-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> The proverbs of Solomon the son of David, king of Israel;
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> To know wisdom and instruction; to perceive the words of understanding;
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> To receive the instruction of wisdom, justice, and judgment, and equity;
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> To give subtilty to the simple, to the young man knowledge and discretion.
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> A wise man will hear, and will increase learning; and a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsels:
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> To understand a proverb, and the interpretation; the words of the wise, and their dark sayings.
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> The fear of the LORD is the beginning of knowledge: but fools despise wisdom and instruction.
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> My son, hear the instruction of thy father, and forsake not the law of thy mother:
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> For they shall be an ornament of grace unto thy head, and chains about thy neck.
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> My son, if sinners entice thee, consent thou not.
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> If they say, Come with us, let us lay wait for blood, let us lurk privily for the innocent without cause:
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Let us swallow them up alive as the grave; and whole, as those that go down into the pit:
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> We shall find all precious substance, we shall fill our houses with spoil:
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Cast in thy lot among us; let us all have one purse:
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> My son, walk not thou in the way with them; refrain thy foot from their path:
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> For their feet run to evil, and make haste to shed blood.
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Surely in vain the net is spread in the sight of any bird.
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> And they lay wait for their own blood; they lurk privily for their own lives.
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> So are the ways of every one that is greedy of gain; which taketh away the life of the owners thereof.
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Wisdom crieth without; she uttereth her voice in the streets:
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> She crieth in the chief place of concourse, in the openings of the gates: in the city she uttereth her words, saying,
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> How long, ye simple ones, will ye love simplicity? and the scorners delight in their scorning, and fools hate knowledge?
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> Turn you at my reproof: behold, I will pour out my spirit unto you, I will make known my words unto you.
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> Because I have called, and ye refused; I have stretched out my hand, and no man regarded;
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> But ye have set at nought all my counsel, and would none of my reproof:
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> I also will laugh at your calamity; I will mock when your fear cometh;
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> When your fear cometh as desolation, and your destruction cometh as a whirlwind; when distress and anguish cometh upon you.
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> Then shall they call upon me, but I will not answer; they shall seek me early, but they shall not find me:
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> For that they hated knowledge, and did not choose the fear of the LORD:
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> They would none of my counsel: they despised all my reproof.
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-31"><span class="num-verse-rw">31</span> Therefore shall they eat of the fruit of their own way, and be filled with their own devices.
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-32"><span class="num-verse-rw">32</span> For the turning away of the simple shall slay them, and the prosperity of fools shall destroy them.
         </p><p id="proverbs-1-33"><span class="num-verse-rw">33</span> But whoso hearkeneth unto me shall dwell safely, and shall be quiet from fear of evil.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-2">Chapter 2</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-2-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> My son, if thou wilt receive my words, and hide my commandments with thee;
         </p><p id="proverbs-2-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> So that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom, and apply thine heart to understanding;
         </p><p id="proverbs-2-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Yea, if thou criest after knowledge, and liftest up thy voice for understanding;
         </p><p id="proverbs-2-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> If thou seekest her as silver, and searchest for her as for hid treasures;
         </p><p id="proverbs-2-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Then shalt thou understand the fear of the LORD, and find the knowledge of God.
         </p><p id="proverbs-2-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> For the LORD giveth wisdom: out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding.
         </p><p id="proverbs-2-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> He layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous: he is a buckler to them that walk uprightly.
         </p><p id="proverbs-2-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> He keepeth the paths of judgment, and preserveth the way of his saints.
         </p><p id="proverbs-2-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Then shalt thou understand righteousness, and judgment, and equity; yea, every good path.
         </p><p id="proverbs-2-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> When wisdom entereth into thine heart, and knowledge is pleasant unto thy soul;
         </p><p id="proverbs-2-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Discretion shall preserve thee, understanding shall keep thee:
         </p><p id="proverbs-2-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> To deliver thee from the way of the evil man, from the man that speaketh froward things;
         </p><p id="proverbs-2-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Who leave the paths of uprightness, to walk in the ways of darkness;
         </p><p id="proverbs-2-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Who rejoice to do evil, and delight in the frowardness of the wicked;
         </p><p id="proverbs-2-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Whose ways are crooked, and they froward in their paths:
         </p><p id="proverbs-2-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> To deliver thee from the strange woman, even from the stranger which flattereth with her words;
         </p><p id="proverbs-2-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Which forsaketh the guide of her youth, and forgetteth the covenant of her God.
         </p><p id="proverbs-2-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> For her house inclineth unto death, and her paths unto the dead.
         </p><p id="proverbs-2-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> None that go unto her return again, neither take they hold of the paths of life.
         </p><p id="proverbs-2-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> That thou mayest walk in the way of good men, and keep the paths of the righteous.
         </p><p id="proverbs-2-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> For the upright shall dwell in the land, and the perfect shall remain in it.
         </p><p id="proverbs-2-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> But the wicked shall be cut off from the earth, and the transgressors shall be rooted out of it.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-3">Chapter 3</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-3-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> My son, forget not my law; but let thine heart keep my commandments:
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> For length of days, and long life, and peace, shall they add to thee.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Let not mercy and truth forsake thee: bind them about thy neck; write them upon the table of thine heart:
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> So shalt thou find favour and good understanding in the sight of God and man.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Trust in the LORD with all thine heart; and lean not unto thine own understanding.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Be not wise in thine own eyes: fear the LORD, and depart from evil.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> It shall be health to thy navel, and marrow to thy bones.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Honour the LORD with thy substance, and with the firstfruits of all thine increase:
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> So shall thy barns be filled with plenty, and thy presses shall burst out with new wine.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> My son, despise not the chastening of the LORD; neither be weary of his correction:
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> For whom the LORD loveth he correcteth; even as a father the son in whom he delighteth.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that getteth understanding.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> For the merchandise of it is better than the merchandise of silver, and the gain thereof than fine gold.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> She is more precious than rubies: and all the things thou canst desire are not to be compared unto her.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Length of days is in her right hand; and in her left hand riches and honour.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> She is a tree of life to them that lay hold upon her: and happy is every one that retaineth her.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> The LORD by wisdom hath founded the earth; by understanding hath he established the heavens.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> By his knowledge the depths are broken up, and the clouds drop down the dew.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> My son, let not them depart from thine eyes: keep sound wisdom and discretion:
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> So shall they be life unto thy soul, and grace to thy neck.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> Then shalt thou walk in thy way safely, and thy foot shall not stumble.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> When thou liest down, thou shalt not be afraid: yea, thou shalt lie down, and thy sleep shall be sweet.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> Be not afraid of sudden fear, neither of the desolation of the wicked, when it cometh.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> For the LORD shall be thy confidence, and shall keep thy foot from being taken.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> Withhold not good from them to whom it is due, when it is in the power of thine hand to do it.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> Say not unto thy neighbour, Go, and come again, and to morrow I will give; when thou hast it by thee.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> Devise not evil against thy neighbour, seeing he dwelleth securely by thee.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> Strive not with a man without cause, if he have done thee no harm.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-31"><span class="num-verse-rw">31</span> Envy thou not the oppressor, and choose none of his ways.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-32"><span class="num-verse-rw">32</span> For the froward is abomination to the LORD: but his secret is with the righteous.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-33"><span class="num-verse-rw">33</span> The curse of the LORD is in the house of the wicked: but he blesseth the habitation of the just.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-34"><span class="num-verse-rw">34</span> Surely he scorneth the scorners: but he giveth grace unto the lowly.
         </p><p id="proverbs-3-35"><span class="num-verse-rw">35</span> The wise shall inherit glory: but shame shall be the promotion of fools.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-4">Chapter 4</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-4-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Hear, ye children, the instruction of a father, and attend to know understanding.
         </p><p id="proverbs-4-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> For I give you good doctrine, forsake ye not my law.
         </p><p id="proverbs-4-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> For I was my father's son, tender and only beloved in the sight of my mother.
         </p><p id="proverbs-4-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> He taught me also, and said unto me, Let thine heart retain my words: keep my commandments, and live.
         </p><p id="proverbs-4-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Get wisdom, get understanding: forget it not; neither decline from the words of my mouth.
         </p><p id="proverbs-4-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Forsake her not, and she shall preserve thee: love her, and she shall keep thee.
         </p><p id="proverbs-4-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Wisdom is the principal thing; therefore get wisdom: and with all thy getting get understanding.
         </p><p id="proverbs-4-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Exalt her, and she shall promote thee: she shall bring thee to honour, when thou dost embrace her.
         </p><p id="proverbs-4-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> She shall give to thine head an ornament of grace: a crown of glory shall she deliver to thee.
         </p><p id="proverbs-4-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Hear, O my son, and receive my sayings; and the years of thy life shall be many.
         </p><p id="proverbs-4-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> I have taught thee in the way of wisdom; I have led thee in right paths.
         </p><p id="proverbs-4-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> When thou goest, thy steps shall not be straitened; and when thou runnest, thou shalt not stumble.
         </p><p id="proverbs-4-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Take fast hold of instruction; let her not go: keep her; for she is thy life.
         </p><p id="proverbs-4-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Enter not into the path of the wicked, and go not in the way of evil men.
         </p><p id="proverbs-4-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Avoid it, pass not by it, turn from it, and pass away.
         </p><p id="proverbs-4-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> For they sleep not, except they have done mischief; and their sleep is taken away, unless they cause some to fall.
         </p><p id="proverbs-4-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> For they eat the bread of wickedness, and drink the wine of violence.
         </p><p id="proverbs-4-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> But the path of the just is as the shining light, that shineth more and more unto the perfect day.
         </p><p id="proverbs-4-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> The way of the wicked is as darkness: they know not at what they stumble.
         </p><p id="proverbs-4-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> My son, attend to my words; incline thine ear unto my sayings.
         </p><p id="proverbs-4-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> Let them not depart from thine eyes; keep them in the midst of thine heart.
         </p><p id="proverbs-4-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> For they are life unto those that find them, and health to all their flesh.
         </p><p id="proverbs-4-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> Keep thy heart with all diligence; for out of it are the issues of life.
         </p><p id="proverbs-4-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> Put away from thee a froward mouth, and perverse lips put far from thee.
         </p><p id="proverbs-4-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> Let thine eyes look right on, and let thine eyelids look straight before thee.
         </p><p id="proverbs-4-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> Ponder the path of thy feet, and let all thy ways be established.
         </p><p id="proverbs-4-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> Turn not to the right hand nor to the left: remove thy foot from evil.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-5">Chapter 5</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-5-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> My son, attend unto my wisdom, and bow thine ear to my understanding:
         </p><p id="proverbs-5-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> That thou mayest regard discretion, and that thy lips may keep knowledge.
         </p><p id="proverbs-5-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> For the lips of a strange woman drop as an honeycomb, and her mouth is smoother than oil:
         </p><p id="proverbs-5-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> But her end is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a two-edged sword.
         </p><p id="proverbs-5-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Her feet go down to death; her steps take hold on hell.
         </p><p id="proverbs-5-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Lest thou shouldest ponder the path of life, her ways are moveable, that thou canst not know them.
         </p><p id="proverbs-5-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Hear me now therefore, O ye children, and depart not from the words of my mouth.
         </p><p id="proverbs-5-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Remove thy way far from her, and come not nigh the door of her house:
         </p><p id="proverbs-5-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Lest thou give thine honour unto others, and thy years unto the cruel:
         </p><p id="proverbs-5-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Lest strangers be filled with thy wealth; and thy labours be in the house of a stranger;
         </p><p id="proverbs-5-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> And thou mourn at the last, when thy flesh and thy body are consumed,
         </p><p id="proverbs-5-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> And say, How have I hated instruction, and my heart despised reproof;
         </p><p id="proverbs-5-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> And have not obeyed the voice of my teachers, nor inclined mine ear to them that instructed me!
         </p><p id="proverbs-5-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> I was almost in all evil in the midst of the congregation and assembly.
         </p><p id="proverbs-5-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Drink waters out of thine own cistern, and running waters out of thine own well.
         </p><p id="proverbs-5-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Let thy fountains be dispersed abroad, and rivers of waters in the streets.
         </p><p id="proverbs-5-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Let them be only thine own, and not strangers' with thee.
         </p><p id="proverbs-5-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Let thy fountain be blessed: and rejoice with the wife of thy youth.
         </p><p id="proverbs-5-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Let her be as the loving hind and pleasant roe; let her breasts satisfy thee at all times; and be thou ravished always with her love.
         </p><p id="proverbs-5-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> And why wilt thou, my son, be ravished with a strange woman, and embrace the bosom of a stranger?
         </p><p id="proverbs-5-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> For the ways of man are before the eyes of the LORD, and he pondereth all his goings.
         </p><p id="proverbs-5-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> His own iniquities shall take the wicked himself, and he shall be holden with the cords of his sins.
         </p><p id="proverbs-5-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> He shall die without instruction; and in the greatness of his folly he shall go astray.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-6">Chapter 6</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-6-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> My son, if thou be surety for thy friend, if thou hast stricken thy hand with a stranger,
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Thou art snared with the words of thy mouth, thou art taken with the words of thy mouth.
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Do this now, my son, and deliver thyself, when thou art come into the hand of thy friend; go, humble thyself, and make sure thy friend.
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Give not sleep to thine eyes, nor slumber to thine eyelids.
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Deliver thyself as a roe from the hand of the hunter, and as a bird from the hand of the fowler.
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Go to the ant, thou sluggard; consider her ways, and be wise:
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Which having no guide, overseer, or ruler,
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Provideth her meat in the summer, and gathereth her food in the harvest.
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> How long wilt thou sleep, O sluggard? when wilt thou arise out of thy sleep?
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep:
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> So shall thy poverty come as one that travelleth, and thy want as an armed man.
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> A naughty person, a wicked man, walketh with a froward mouth.
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> He winketh with his eyes, he speaketh with his feet, he teacheth with his fingers;
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Frowardness is in his heart, he deviseth mischief continually; he soweth discord.
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Therefore shall his calamity come suddenly; suddenly shall he be broken without remedy.
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> These six things doth the LORD hate: yea, seven are an abomination unto him:
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> A proud look, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood,
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> An heart that deviseth wicked imaginations, feet that be swift in running to mischief,
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> A false witness that speaketh lies, and he that soweth discord among brethren.
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> My son, keep thy father's commandment, and forsake not the law of thy mother:
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> Bind them continually upon thine heart, and tie them about thy neck.
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> When thou goest, it shall lead thee; when thou sleepest, it shall keep thee; and when thou awakest, it shall talk with thee.
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> For the commandment is a lamp; and the law is light; and reproofs of instruction are the way of life:
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> To keep thee from the evil woman, from the flattery of the tongue of a strange woman.
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> Lust not after her beauty in thine heart; neither let her take thee with her eyelids.
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> For by means of a whorish woman a man is brought to a piece of bread: and the adultress will hunt for the precious life.
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> Can a man take fire in his bosom, and his clothes not be burned?
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> Can one go upon hot coals, and his feet not be burned?
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> So he that goeth in to his neighbour's wife; whosoever toucheth her shall not be innocent.
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> Men do not despise a thief, if he steal to satisfy his soul when he is hungry;
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-31"><span class="num-verse-rw">31</span> But if he be found, he shall restore sevenfold; he shall give all the substance of his house.
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-32"><span class="num-verse-rw">32</span> But whoso committeth adultery with a woman lacketh understanding: he that doeth it destroyeth his own soul.
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-33"><span class="num-verse-rw">33</span> A wound and dishonour shall he get; and his reproach shall not be wiped away.
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-34"><span class="num-verse-rw">34</span> For jealousy is the rage of a man: therefore he will not spare in the day of vengeance.
         </p><p id="proverbs-6-35"><span class="num-verse-rw">35</span> He will not regard any ransom; neither will he rest content, though thou givest many gifts.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-7">Chapter 7</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-7-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> My son, keep my words, and lay up my commandments with thee.
         </p><p id="proverbs-7-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Keep my commandments, and live; and my law as the apple of thine eye.
         </p><p id="proverbs-7-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Bind them upon thy fingers, write them upon the table of thine heart.
         </p><p id="proverbs-7-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Say unto wisdom, Thou art my sister; and call understanding thy kinswoman:
         </p><p id="proverbs-7-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> That they may keep thee from the strange woman, from the stranger which flattereth with her words.
         </p><p id="proverbs-7-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> For at the window of my house I looked through my casement,
         </p><p id="proverbs-7-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> And beheld among the simple ones, I discerned among the youths, a young man void of understanding,
         </p><p id="proverbs-7-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Passing through the street near her corner; and he went the way to her house,
         </p><p id="proverbs-7-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> In the twilight, in the evening, in the black and dark night:
         </p><p id="proverbs-7-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> And, behold, there met him a woman with the attire of an harlot, and subtil of heart.
         </p><p id="proverbs-7-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> (She is loud and stubborn; her feet abide not in her house:
         </p><p id="proverbs-7-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Now is she without, now in the streets, and lieth in wait at every corner.)
         </p><p id="proverbs-7-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> So she caught him, and kissed him, and with an impudent face said unto him,
         </p><p id="proverbs-7-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> I have peace offerings with me; this day have I payed my vows.
         </p><p id="proverbs-7-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Therefore came I forth to meet thee, diligently to seek thy face, and I have found thee.
         </p><p id="proverbs-7-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> I have decked my bed with coverings of tapestry, with carved works, with fine linen of Egypt.
         </p><p id="proverbs-7-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> I have perfumed my bed with myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon.
         </p><p id="proverbs-7-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Come, let us take our fill of love until the morning: let us solace ourselves with loves.
         </p><p id="proverbs-7-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> For the goodman is not at home, he is gone a long journey:
         </p><p id="proverbs-7-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> He hath taken a bag of money with him, and will come home at the day appointed.
         </p><p id="proverbs-7-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> With her much fair speech she caused him to yield, with the flattering of her lips she forced him.
         </p><p id="proverbs-7-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> He goeth after her straightway, as an ox goeth to the slaughter, or as a fool to the correction of the stocks;
         </p><p id="proverbs-7-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> Till a dart strike through his liver; as a bird hasteth to the snare, and knoweth not that it is for his life.
         </p><p id="proverbs-7-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> Hearken unto me now therefore, O ye children, and attend to the words of my mouth.
         </p><p id="proverbs-7-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> Let not thine heart decline to her ways, go not astray in her paths.
         </p><p id="proverbs-7-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> For she hath cast down many wounded: yea, many strong men have been slain by her.
         </p><p id="proverbs-7-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> Her house is the way to hell, going down to the chambers of death.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-8">Chapter 8</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-8-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Doth not wisdom cry? and understanding put forth her voice?
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> She standeth in the top of high places, by the way in the places of the paths.
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> She crieth at the gates, at the entry of the city, at the coming in at the doors.
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Unto you, O men, I call; and my voice is to the sons of man.
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> O ye simple, understand wisdom: and, ye fools, be ye of an understanding heart.
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Hear; for I will speak of excellent things; and the opening of my lips shall be right things.
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> For my mouth shall speak truth; and wickedness is an abomination to my lips.
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> All the words of my mouth are in righteousness; there is nothing froward or perverse in them.
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> They are all plain to him that understandeth, and right to them that find knowledge.
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Receive my instruction, and not silver; and knowledge rather than choice gold.
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> For wisdom is better than rubies; and all the things that may be desired are not to be compared to it.
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> I wisdom dwell with prudence, and find out knowledge of witty inventions.
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> The fear of the LORD is to hate evil: pride, and arrogancy, and the evil way, and the froward mouth, do I hate.
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Counsel is mine, and sound wisdom: I am understanding; I have strength.
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> By me kings reign, and princes decree justice.
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> By me princes rule, and nobles, even all the judges of the earth.
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> I love them that love me; and those that seek me early shall find me.
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Riches and honour are with me; yea, durable riches and righteousness.
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> My fruit is better than gold, yea, than fine gold; and my revenue than choice silver.
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> I lead in the way of righteousness, in the midst of the paths of judgment:
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> That I may cause those that love me to inherit substance; and I will fill their treasures.
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> The LORD possessed me in the beginning of his way, before his works of old.
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> I was set up from everlasting, from the beginning, or ever the earth was.
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> When there were no depths, I was brought forth; when there were no fountains abounding with water.
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> Before the mountains were settled, before the hills was I brought forth:
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> While as yet he had not made the earth, nor the fields, nor the highest part of the dust of the world.
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> When he prepared the heavens, I was there: when he set a compass upon the face of the depth:
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> When he established the clouds above: when he strengthened the fountains of the deep:
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> When he gave to the sea his decree, that the waters should not pass his commandment: when he appointed the foundations of the earth:
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> Then I was by him, as one brought up with him: and I was daily his delight, rejoicing always before him;
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-31"><span class="num-verse-rw">31</span> Rejoicing in the habitable part of his earth; and my delights were with the sons of men.
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-32"><span class="num-verse-rw">32</span> Now therefore hearken unto me, O ye children: for blessed are they that keep my ways.
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-33"><span class="num-verse-rw">33</span> Hear instruction, and be wise, and refuse it not.
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-34"><span class="num-verse-rw">34</span> Blessed is the man that heareth me, watching daily at my gates, waiting at the posts of my doors.
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-35"><span class="num-verse-rw">35</span> For whoso findeth me findeth life, and shall obtain favour of the LORD.
         </p><p id="proverbs-8-36"><span class="num-verse-rw">36</span> But he that sinneth against me wrongeth his own soul: all they that hate me love death.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-9">Chapter 9</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-9-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Wisdom hath builded her house, she hath hewn out her seven pillars:
         </p><p id="proverbs-9-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> She hath killed her beasts; she hath mingled her wine; she hath also furnished her table.
         </p><p id="proverbs-9-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> She hath sent forth her maidens: she crieth upon the highest places of the city,
         </p><p id="proverbs-9-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Whoso is simple, let him turn in hither: as for him that wanteth understanding, she saith to him,
         </p><p id="proverbs-9-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Come, eat of my bread, and drink of the wine which I have mingled.
         </p><p id="proverbs-9-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Forsake the foolish, and live; and go in the way of understanding.
         </p><p id="proverbs-9-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> He that reproveth a scorner getteth to himself shame: and he that rebuketh a wicked man getteth himself a blot.
         </p><p id="proverbs-9-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Reprove not a scorner, lest he hate thee: rebuke a wise man, and he will love thee.
         </p><p id="proverbs-9-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Give instruction to a wise man, and he will be yet wiser: teach a just man, and he will increase in learning.
         </p><p id="proverbs-9-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom: and the knowledge of the holy is understanding.
         </p><p id="proverbs-9-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> For by me thy days shall be multiplied, and the years of thy life shall be increased.
         </p><p id="proverbs-9-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> If thou be wise, thou shalt be wise for thyself: but if thou scornest, thou alone shalt bear it.
         </p><p id="proverbs-9-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> A foolish woman is clamorous: she is simple, and knoweth nothing.
         </p><p id="proverbs-9-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> For she sitteth at the door of her house, on a seat in the high places of the city,
         </p><p id="proverbs-9-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> To call passengers who go right on their ways:
         </p><p id="proverbs-9-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Whoso is simple, let him turn in hither: and as for him that wanteth understanding, she saith to him,
         </p><p id="proverbs-9-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Stolen waters are sweet, and bread eaten in secret is pleasant.
         </p><p id="proverbs-9-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> But he knoweth not that the dead are there; and that her guests are in the depths of hell.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-10">Chapter 10</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-10-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> The proverbs of Solomon. A wise son maketh a glad father: but a foolish son is the heaviness of his mother.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Treasures of wickedness profit nothing: but righteousness delivereth from death.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> The LORD will not suffer the soul of the righteous to famish: but he casteth away the substance of the wicked.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand: but the hand of the diligent maketh rich.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> He that gathereth in summer is a wise son: but he that sleepeth in harvest is a son that causeth shame.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Blessings are upon the head of the just: but violence covereth the mouth of the wicked.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> The memory of the just is blessed: but the name of the wicked shall rot.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> The wise in heart will receive commandments: but a prating fool shall fall.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> He that walketh uprightly walketh surely: but he that perverteth his ways shall be known.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> He that winketh with the eye causeth sorrow: but a prating fool shall fall.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> The mouth of a righteous man is a well of life: but violence covereth the mouth of the wicked.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Hatred stirreth up strifes: but love covereth all sins.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> In the lips of him that hath understanding wisdom is found: but a rod is for the back of him that is void of understanding.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Wise men lay up knowledge: but the mouth of the foolish is near destruction.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> The rich man's wealth is his strong city: the destruction of the poor is their poverty.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> The labour of the righteous tendeth to life: the fruit of the wicked to sin.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> He is in the way of life that keepeth instruction: but he that refuseth reproof erreth.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> He that hideth hatred with lying lips, and he that uttereth a slander, is a fool.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> In the multitude of words there wanteth not sin: but he that refraineth his lips is wise.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> The tongue of the just is as choice silver: the heart of the wicked is little worth.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> The lips of the righteous feed many: but fools die for want of wisdom.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> The blessing of the LORD, it maketh rich, and he addeth no sorrow with it.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> It is as sport to a fool to do mischief: but a man of understanding hath wisdom.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> The fear of the wicked, it shall come upon him: but the desire of the righteous shall be granted.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> As the whirlwind passeth, so is the wicked no more: but the righteous is an everlasting foundation.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> As vinegar to the teeth, and as smoke to the eyes, so is the sluggard to them that send him.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> The fear of the LORD prolongeth days: but the years of the wicked shall be shortened.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> The hope of the righteous shall be gladness: but the expectation of the wicked shall perish.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> The way of the LORD is strength to the upright: but destruction shall be to the workers of iniquity.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> The righteous shall never be removed: but the wicked shall not inhabit the earth.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-31"><span class="num-verse-rw">31</span> The mouth of the just bringeth forth wisdom: but the froward tongue shall be cut out.
         </p><p id="proverbs-10-32"><span class="num-verse-rw">32</span> The lips of the righteous know what is acceptable: but the mouth of the wicked speaketh frowardness.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-11">Chapter 11</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-11-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> A false balance is abomination to the LORD: but a just weight is his delight.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> When pride cometh, then cometh shame: but with the lowly is wisdom.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> The integrity of the upright shall guide them: but the perverseness of transgressors shall destroy them.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Riches profit not in the day of wrath: but righteousness delivereth from death.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> The righteousness of the perfect shall direct his way: but the wicked shall fall by his own wickedness.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them: but transgressors shall be taken in their own naughtiness.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> When a wicked man dieth, his expectation shall perish: and the hope of unjust men perisheth.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> The righteous is delivered out of trouble, and the wicked cometh in his stead.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> An hypocrite with his mouth destroyeth his neighbour: but through knowledge shall the just be delivered.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> When it goeth well with the righteous, the city rejoiceth: and when the wicked perish, there is shouting.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> By the blessing of the upright the city is exalted: but it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> He that is void of wisdom despiseth his neighbour: but a man of understanding holdeth his peace.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> A talebearer revealeth secrets: but he that is of a faithful spirit concealeth the matter.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Where no counsel is, the people fall: but in the multitude of counsellors there is safety.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> He that is surety for a stranger shall smart for it: and he that hateth suretiship is sure.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> A gracious woman retaineth honour: and strong men retain riches.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> The merciful man doeth good to his own soul: but he that is cruel troubleth his own flesh.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> The wicked worketh a deceitful work: but to him that soweth righteousness shall be a sure reward.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> As righteousness tendeth to life: so he that pursueth evil pursueth it to his own death.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> They that are of a froward heart are abomination to the LORD: but such as are upright in their way are his delight.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> Though hand join in hand, the wicked shall not be unpunished: but the seed of the righteous shall be delivered.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> As a jewel of gold in a swine's snout, so is a fair woman which is without discretion.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> The desire of the righteous is only good: but the expectation of the wicked is wrath.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> There is that scattereth, and yet increaseth; and there is that withholdeth more than is meet, but it tendeth to poverty.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> The liberal soul shall be made fat: and he that watereth shall be watered also himself.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> He that withholdeth corn, the people shall curse him: but blessing shall be upon the head of him that selleth it.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> He that diligently seeketh good procureth favour: but he that seeketh mischief, it shall come unto him.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> He that trusteth in his riches shall fall; but the righteous shall flourish as a branch.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> He that troubleth his own house shall inherit the wind: and the fool shall be servant to the wise of heart.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life; and he that winneth souls is wise.
         </p><p id="proverbs-11-31"><span class="num-verse-rw">31</span> Behold, the righteous shall be recompensed in the earth: much more the wicked and the sinner.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-12">Chapter 12</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-12-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Whoso loveth instruction loveth knowledge: but he that hateth reproof is brutish.
         </p><p id="proverbs-12-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> A good man obtaineth favour of the LORD: but a man of wicked devices will he condemn.
         </p><p id="proverbs-12-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> A man shall not be established by wickedness: but the root of the righteous shall not be moved.
         </p><p id="proverbs-12-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband: but she that maketh ashamed is as rottenness in his bones.
         </p><p id="proverbs-12-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> The thoughts of the righteous are right: but the counsels of the wicked are deceit.
         </p><p id="proverbs-12-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> The words of the wicked are to lie in wait for blood: but the mouth of the upright shall deliver them.
         </p><p id="proverbs-12-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> The wicked are overthrown, and are not: but the house of the righteous shall stand.
         </p><p id="proverbs-12-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> A man shall be commended according to his wisdom: but he that is of a perverse heart shall be despised.
         </p><p id="proverbs-12-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> He that is despised, and hath a servant, is better than he that honoureth himself, and lacketh bread.
         </p><p id="proverbs-12-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> A righteous man regardeth the life of his beast: but the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel.
         </p><p id="proverbs-12-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> He that tilleth his land shall be satisfied with bread: but he that followeth vain persons is void of understanding.
         </p><p id="proverbs-12-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> The wicked desireth the net of evil men: but the root of the righteous yieldeth fruit.
         </p><p id="proverbs-12-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> The wicked is snared by the transgression of his lips: but the just shall come out of trouble.
         </p><p id="proverbs-12-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> A man shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth: and the recompence of a man's hands shall be rendered unto him.
         </p><p id="proverbs-12-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> The way of a fool is right in his own eyes: but he that hearkeneth unto counsel is wise.
         </p><p id="proverbs-12-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> A fool's wrath is presently known: but a prudent man covereth shame.
         </p><p id="proverbs-12-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> He that speaketh truth sheweth forth righteousness: but a false witness deceit.
         </p><p id="proverbs-12-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> There is that speaketh like the piercings of a sword: but the tongue of the wise is health.
         </p><p id="proverbs-12-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> The lip of truth shall be established for ever: but a lying tongue is but for a moment.
         </p><p id="proverbs-12-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Deceit is in the heart of them that imagine evil: but to the counsellors of peace is joy.
         </p><p id="proverbs-12-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> There shall no evil happen to the just: but the wicked shall be filled with mischief.
         </p><p id="proverbs-12-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> Lying lips are abomination to the LORD: but they that deal truly are his delight.
         </p><p id="proverbs-12-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> A prudent man concealeth knowledge: but the heart of fools proclaimeth foolishness.
         </p><p id="proverbs-12-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> The hand of the diligent shall bear rule: but the slothful shall be under tribute.
         </p><p id="proverbs-12-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> Heaviness in the heart of man maketh it stoop: but a good word maketh it glad.
         </p><p id="proverbs-12-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> The righteous is more excellent than his neighbour: but the way of the wicked seduceth them.
         </p><p id="proverbs-12-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> The slothful man roasteth not that which he took in hunting: but the substance of a diligent man is precious.
         </p><p id="proverbs-12-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> In the way of righteousness is life: and in the pathway thereof there is no death.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-13">Chapter 13</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-13-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> A wise son heareth his father's instruction: but a scorner heareth not rebuke.
         </p><p id="proverbs-13-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> A man shall eat good by the fruit of his mouth: but the soul of the transgressors shall eat violence.
         </p><p id="proverbs-13-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> He that keepeth his mouth keepeth his life: but he that openeth wide his lips shall have destruction.
         </p><p id="proverbs-13-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> The soul of the sluggard desireth, and hath nothing: but the soul of the diligent shall be made fat.
         </p><p id="proverbs-13-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> A righteous man hateth lying: but a wicked man is loathsome, and cometh to shame.
         </p><p id="proverbs-13-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Righteousness keepeth him that is upright in the way: but wickedness overthroweth the sinner.
         </p><p id="proverbs-13-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> There is that maketh himself rich, yet hath nothing: there is that maketh himself poor, yet hath great riches.
         </p><p id="proverbs-13-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> The ransom of a man's life are his riches: but the poor heareth not rebuke.
         </p><p id="proverbs-13-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> The light of the righteous rejoiceth: but the lamp of the wicked shall be put out.
         </p><p id="proverbs-13-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Only by pride cometh contention: but with the well advised is wisdom.
         </p><p id="proverbs-13-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Wealth gotten by vanity shall be diminished: but he that gathereth by labour shall increase.
         </p><p id="proverbs-13-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Hope deferred maketh the heart sick: but when the desire cometh, it is a tree of life.
         </p><p id="proverbs-13-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Whoso despiseth the word shall be destroyed: but he that feareth the commandment shall be rewarded.
         </p><p id="proverbs-13-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> The law of the wise is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death.
         </p><p id="proverbs-13-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Good understanding giveth favour: but the way of transgressors is hard.
         </p><p id="proverbs-13-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Every prudent man dealeth with knowledge: but a fool layeth open his folly.
         </p><p id="proverbs-13-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> A wicked messenger falleth into mischief: but a faithful ambassador is health.
         </p><p id="proverbs-13-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Poverty and shame shall be to him that refuseth instruction: but he that regardeth reproof shall be honoured.
         </p><p id="proverbs-13-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> The desire accomplished is sweet to the soul: but it is abomination to fools to depart from evil.
         </p><p id="proverbs-13-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> He that walketh with wise men shall be wise: but a companion of fools shall be destroyed.
         </p><p id="proverbs-13-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> Evil pursueth sinners: but to the righteous good shall be repayed.
         </p><p id="proverbs-13-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> A good man leaveth an inheritance to his children's children: and the wealth of the sinner is laid up for the just.
         </p><p id="proverbs-13-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> Much food is in the tillage of the poor: but there is that is destroyed for want of judgment.
         </p><p id="proverbs-13-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> He that spareth his rod hateth his son: but he that loveth him chasteneth him betimes.
         </p><p id="proverbs-13-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> The righteous eateth to the satisfying of his soul: but the belly of the wicked shall want.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-14">Chapter 14</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-14-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Every wise woman buildeth her house: but the foolish plucketh it down with her hands.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> He that walketh in his uprightness feareth the LORD: but he that is perverse in his ways despiseth him.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> In the mouth of the foolish is a rod of pride: but the lips of the wise shall preserve them.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Where no oxen are, the crib is clean: but much increase is by the strength of the ox.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> A faithful witness will not lie: but a false witness will utter lies.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> A scorner seeketh wisdom, and findeth it not: but knowledge is easy unto him that understandeth.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Go from the presence of a foolish man, when thou perceivest not in him the lips of knowledge.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> The wisdom of the prudent is to understand his way: but the folly of fools is deceit.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Fools make a mock at sin: but among the righteous there is favour.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> The heart knoweth his own bitterness; and a stranger doth not intermeddle with his joy.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> The house of the wicked shall be overthrown: but the tabernacle of the upright shall flourish.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> There is a way which seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Even in laughter the heart is sorrowful; and the end of that mirth is heaviness.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> The backslider in heart shall be filled with his own ways: and a good man shall be satisfied from himself.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> The simple believeth every word: but the prudent man looketh well to his going.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> A wise man feareth, and departeth from evil: but the fool rageth, and is confident.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> He that is soon angry dealeth foolishly: and a man of wicked devices is hated.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> The simple inherit folly: but the prudent are crowned with knowledge.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> The evil bow before the good; and the wicked at the gates of the righteous.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> The poor is hated even of his own neighbour: but the rich hath many friends.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> He that despiseth his neighbour sinneth: but he that hath mercy on the poor, happy is he.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> Do they not err that devise evil? but mercy and truth shall be to them that devise good.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> In all labour there is profit: but the talk of the lips tendeth only to penury.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> The crown of the wise is their riches: but the foolishness of fools is folly.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> A true witness delivereth souls: but a deceitful witness speaketh lies.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> In the fear of the LORD is strong confidence: and his children shall have a place of refuge.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> The fear of the LORD is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> In the multitude of people is the king's honour: but in the want of people is the destruction of the prince.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> He that is slow to wrath is of great understanding: but he that is hasty of spirit exalteth folly.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> A sound heart is the life of the flesh: but envy the rottenness of the bones.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-31"><span class="num-verse-rw">31</span> He that oppresseth the poor reproacheth his Maker: but he that honoureth him hath mercy on the poor.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-32"><span class="num-verse-rw">32</span> The wicked is driven away in his wickedness: but the righteous hath hope in his death.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-33"><span class="num-verse-rw">33</span> Wisdom resteth in the heart of him that hath understanding: but that which is in the midst of fools is made known.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-34"><span class="num-verse-rw">34</span> Righteousness exalteth a nation: but sin is a reproach to any people.
         </p><p id="proverbs-14-35"><span class="num-verse-rw">35</span> The king's favour is toward a wise servant: but his wrath is against him that causeth shame.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-15">Chapter 15</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-15-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> A soft answer turneth away wrath: but grievous words stir up anger.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> The tongue of the wise useth knowledge aright: but the mouth of fools poureth out foolishness.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> The eyes of the LORD are in every place, beholding the evil and the good.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> A wholesome tongue is a tree of life: but perverseness therein is a breach in the spirit.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> A fool despiseth his father's instruction: but he that regardeth reproof is prudent.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> In the house of the righteous is much treasure: but in the revenues of the wicked is trouble.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> The lips of the wise disperse knowledge: but the heart of the foolish doeth not so.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to the LORD: but the prayer of the upright is his delight.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> The way of the wicked is an abomination unto the LORD: but he loveth him that followeth after righteousness.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Correction is grievous unto him that forsaketh the way: and he that hateth reproof shall die.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Hell and destruction are before the LORD: how much more then the hearts of the children of men?
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> A scorner loveth not one that reproveth him: neither will he go unto the wise.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> A merry heart maketh a cheerful countenance: but by sorrow of the heart the spirit is broken.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> The heart of him that hath understanding seeketh knowledge: but the mouth of fools feedeth on foolishness.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> All the days of the afflicted are evil: but he that is of a merry heart hath a continual feast.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Better is little with the fear of the LORD than great treasure and trouble therewith.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> A wrathful man stirreth up strife: but he that is slow to anger appeaseth strife.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> The way of the slothful man is as an hedge of thorns: but the way of the righteous is made plain.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> A wise son maketh a glad father: but a foolish man despiseth his mother.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> Folly is joy to him that is destitute of wisdom: but a man of understanding walketh uprightly.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> Without counsel purposes are disappointed: but in the multitude of counsellors they are established.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> A man hath joy by the answer of his mouth: and a word spoken in due season, how good is it!
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> The way of life is above to the wise, that he may depart from hell beneath.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> The LORD will destroy the house of the proud: but he will establish the border of the widow.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> The thoughts of the wicked are an abomination to the LORD: but the words of the pure are pleasant words.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> He that is greedy of gain troubleth his own house; but he that hateth gifts shall live.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> The heart of the righteous studieth to answer: but the mouth of the wicked poureth out evil things.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> The LORD is far from the wicked: but he heareth the prayer of the righteous.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> The light of the eyes rejoiceth the heart: and a good report maketh the bones fat.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-31"><span class="num-verse-rw">31</span> The ear that heareth the reproof of life abideth among the wise.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-32"><span class="num-verse-rw">32</span> He that refuseth instruction despiseth his own soul: but he that heareth reproof getteth understanding.
         </p><p id="proverbs-15-33"><span class="num-verse-rw">33</span> The fear of the LORD is the instruction of wisdom; and before honour is humility.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-16">Chapter 16</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-16-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> The preparations of the heart in man, and the answer of the tongue, is from the LORD.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> All the ways of a man are clean in his own eyes; but the LORD weigheth the spirits.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Commit thy works unto the LORD, and thy thoughts shall be established.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> The LORD hath made all things for himself: yea, even the wicked for the day of evil.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Every one that is proud in heart is an abomination to the LORD: though hand join in hand, he shall not be unpunished.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> By mercy and truth iniquity is purged: and by the fear of the LORD men depart from evil.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> When a man's ways please the LORD, he maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Better is a little with righteousness than great revenues without right.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> A man's heart deviseth his way: but the LORD directeth his steps.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> A divine sentence is in the lips of the king: his mouth transgresseth not in judgment.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> A just weight and balance are the LORD's: all the weights of the bag are his work.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> It is an abomination to kings to commit wickedness: for the throne is established by righteousness.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Righteous lips are the delight of kings; and they love him that speaketh right.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> The wrath of a king is as messengers of death: but a wise man will pacify it.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> In the light of the king's countenance is life; and his favour is as a cloud of the latter rain.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> How much better is it to get wisdom than gold! and to get understanding rather to be chosen than silver!
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> The highway of the upright is to depart from evil: he that keepeth his way preserveth his soul.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Pride goeth before destruction, and an haughty spirit before a fall.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Better it is to be of an humble spirit with the lowly, than to divide the spoil with the proud.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> He that handleth a matter wisely shall find good: and whoso trusteth in the LORD, happy is he.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> The wise in heart shall be called prudent: and the sweetness of the lips increaseth learning.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> Understanding is a wellspring of life unto him that hath it: but the instruction of fools is folly.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> The heart of the wise teacheth his mouth, and addeth learning to his lips.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> Pleasant words are as an honeycomb, sweet to the soul, and health to the bones.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> There is a way that seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> He that laboureth laboureth for himself; for his mouth craveth it of him.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> An ungodly man diggeth up evil: and in his lips there is as a burning fire.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> A froward man soweth strife: and a whisperer separateth chief friends.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> A violent man enticeth his neighbour, and leadeth him into the way that is not good.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> He shutteth his eyes to devise froward things: moving his lips he bringeth evil to pass.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-31"><span class="num-verse-rw">31</span> The hoary head is a crown of glory, if it be found in the way of righteousness.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-32"><span class="num-verse-rw">32</span> He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty; and he that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a city.
         </p><p id="proverbs-16-33"><span class="num-verse-rw">33</span> The lot is cast into the lap; but the whole disposing thereof is of the LORD.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-17">Chapter 17</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-17-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Better is a dry morsel, and quietness therewith, than an house full of sacrifices with strife.
         </p><p id="proverbs-17-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> A wise servant shall have rule over a son that causeth shame, and shall have part of the inheritance among the brethren.
         </p><p id="proverbs-17-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> The fining pot is for silver, and the furnace for gold: but the LORD trieth the hearts.
         </p><p id="proverbs-17-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> A wicked doer giveth heed to false lips; and a liar giveth ear to a naughty tongue.
         </p><p id="proverbs-17-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Whoso mocketh the poor reproacheth his Maker: and he that is glad at calamities shall not be unpunished.
         </p><p id="proverbs-17-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Children's children are the crown of old men; and the glory of children are their fathers.
         </p><p id="proverbs-17-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Excellent speech becometh not a fool: much less do lying lips a prince.
         </p><p id="proverbs-17-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> A gift is as a precious stone in the eyes of him that hath it: whithersoever it turneth, it prospereth.
         </p><p id="proverbs-17-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> He that covereth a transgression seeketh love; but he that repeateth a matter separateth very friends.
         </p><p id="proverbs-17-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> A reproof entereth more into a wise man than an hundred stripes into a fool.
         </p><p id="proverbs-17-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> An evil man seeketh only rebellion: therefore a cruel messenger shall be sent against him.
         </p><p id="proverbs-17-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Let a bear robbed of her whelps meet a man, rather than a fool in his folly.
         </p><p id="proverbs-17-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Whoso rewardeth evil for good, evil shall not depart from his house.
         </p><p id="proverbs-17-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> The beginning of strife is as when one letteth out water: therefore leave off contention, before it be meddled with.
         </p><p id="proverbs-17-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> He that justifieth the wicked, and he that condemneth the just, even they both are abomination to the LORD.
         </p><p id="proverbs-17-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Wherefore is there a price in the hand of a fool to get wisdom, seeing he hath no heart to it?
         </p><p id="proverbs-17-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> A friend loveth at all times, and a brother is born for adversity.
         </p><p id="proverbs-17-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> A man void of understanding striketh hands, and becometh surety in the presence of his friend.
         </p><p id="proverbs-17-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> He loveth transgression that loveth strife: and he that exalteth his gate seeketh destruction.
         </p><p id="proverbs-17-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> He that hath a froward heart findeth no good: and he that hath a perverse tongue falleth into mischief.
         </p><p id="proverbs-17-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> He that begetteth a fool doeth it to his sorrow: and the father of a fool hath no joy.
         </p><p id="proverbs-17-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> A merry heart doeth good like a medicine: but a broken spirit drieth the bones.
         </p><p id="proverbs-17-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> A wicked man taketh a gift out of the bosom to pervert the ways of judgment.
         </p><p id="proverbs-17-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> Wisdom is before him that hath understanding; but the eyes of a fool are in the ends of the earth.
         </p><p id="proverbs-17-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> A foolish son is a grief to his father, and bitterness to her that bare him.
         </p><p id="proverbs-17-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> Also to punish the just is not good, nor to strike princes for equity.
         </p><p id="proverbs-17-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> He that hath knowledge spareth his words: and a man of understanding is of an excellent spirit.
         </p><p id="proverbs-17-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> Even a fool, when he holdeth his peace, is counted wise: and he that shutteth his lips is esteemed a man of understanding.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-18">Chapter 18</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-18-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Through desire a man, having separated himself, seeketh and intermeddleth with all wisdom.
         </p><p id="proverbs-18-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> A fool hath no delight in understanding, but that his heart may discover itself.
         </p><p id="proverbs-18-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> When the wicked cometh, then cometh also contempt, and with ignominy reproach.
         </p><p id="proverbs-18-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> The words of a man's mouth are as deep waters, and the wellspring of wisdom as a flowing brook.
         </p><p id="proverbs-18-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> It is not good to accept the person of the wicked, to overthrow the righteous in judgment.
         </p><p id="proverbs-18-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> A fool's lips enter into contention, and his mouth calleth for strokes.
         </p><p id="proverbs-18-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> A fool's mouth is his destruction, and his lips are the snare of his soul.
         </p><p id="proverbs-18-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> The words of a talebearer are as wounds, and they go down into the innermost parts of the belly.
         </p><p id="proverbs-18-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> He also that is slothful in his work is brother to him that is a great waster.
         </p><p id="proverbs-18-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> The name of the LORD is a strong tower: the righteous runneth into it, and is safe.
         </p><p id="proverbs-18-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> The rich man's wealth is his strong city, and as an high wall in his own conceit.
         </p><p id="proverbs-18-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Before destruction the heart of man is haughty, and before honour is humility.
         </p><p id="proverbs-18-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> He that answereth a matter before he heareth it, it is folly and shame unto him.
         </p><p id="proverbs-18-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> The spirit of a man will sustain his infirmity; but a wounded spirit who can bear?
         </p><p id="proverbs-18-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> The heart of the prudent getteth knowledge; and the ear of the wise seeketh knowledge.
         </p><p id="proverbs-18-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> A man's gift maketh room for him, and bringeth him before great men.
         </p><p id="proverbs-18-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> He that is first in his own cause seemeth just; but his neighbour cometh and searcheth him.
         </p><p id="proverbs-18-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> The lot causeth contentions to cease, and parteth between the mighty.
         </p><p id="proverbs-18-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> A brother offended is harder to be won than a strong city: and their contentions are like the bars of a castle.
         </p><p id="proverbs-18-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> A man's belly shall be satisfied with the fruit of his mouth; and with the increase of his lips shall he be filled.
         </p><p id="proverbs-18-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> Death and life are in the power of the tongue: and they that love it shall eat the fruit thereof.
         </p><p id="proverbs-18-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> Whoso findeth a wife findeth a good thing, and obtaineth favour of the LORD.
         </p><p id="proverbs-18-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> The poor useth intreaties; but the rich answereth roughly.
         </p><p id="proverbs-18-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> A man that hath friends must shew himself friendly: and there is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-19">Chapter 19</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-19-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Better is the poor that walketh in his integrity, than he that is perverse in his lips, and is a fool.
         </p><p id="proverbs-19-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Also, that the soul be without knowledge, it is not good; and he that hasteth with his feet sinneth.
         </p><p id="proverbs-19-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> The foolishness of man perverteth his way: and his heart fretteth against the LORD.
         </p><p id="proverbs-19-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Wealth maketh many friends; but the poor is separated from his neighbour.
         </p><p id="proverbs-19-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> A false witness shall not be unpunished, and he that speaketh lies shall not escape.
         </p><p id="proverbs-19-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Many will intreat the favour of the prince: and every man is a friend to him that giveth gifts.
         </p><p id="proverbs-19-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> All the brethren of the poor do hate him: how much more do his friends go far from him? he pursueth them with words, yet they are wanting to him.
         </p><p id="proverbs-19-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> He that getteth wisdom loveth his own soul: he that keepeth understanding shall find good.
         </p><p id="proverbs-19-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> A false witness shall not be unpunished, and he that speaketh lies shall perish.
         </p><p id="proverbs-19-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Delight is not seemly for a fool; much less for a servant to have rule over princes.
         </p><p id="proverbs-19-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> The discretion of a man deferreth his anger; and it is his glory to pass over a transgression.
         </p><p id="proverbs-19-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> The king's wrath is as the roaring of a lion; but his favour is as dew upon the grass.
         </p><p id="proverbs-19-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> A foolish son is the calamity of his father: and the contentions of a wife are a continual dropping.
         </p><p id="proverbs-19-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> House and riches are the inheritance of fathers: and a prudent wife is from the LORD.
         </p><p id="proverbs-19-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Slothfulness casteth into a deep sleep; and an idle soul shall suffer hunger.
         </p><p id="proverbs-19-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> He that keepeth the commandment keepeth his own soul; but he that despiseth his ways shall die.
         </p><p id="proverbs-19-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> He that hath pity upon the poor lendeth unto the LORD; and that which he hath given will he pay him again.
         </p><p id="proverbs-19-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Chasten thy son while there is hope, and let not thy soul spare for his crying.
         </p><p id="proverbs-19-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> A man of great wrath shall suffer punishment: for if thou deliver him, yet thou must do it again.
         </p><p id="proverbs-19-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Hear counsel, and receive instruction, that thou mayest be wise in thy latter end.
         </p><p id="proverbs-19-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> There are many devices in a man's heart; nevertheless the counsel of the LORD, that shall stand.
         </p><p id="proverbs-19-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> The desire of a man is his kindness: and a poor man is better than a liar.
         </p><p id="proverbs-19-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> The fear of the LORD tendeth to life: and he that hath it shall abide satisfied; he shall not be visited with evil.
         </p><p id="proverbs-19-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> A slothful man hideth his hand in his bosom, and will not so much as bring it to his mouth again.
         </p><p id="proverbs-19-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> Smite a scorner, and the simple will beware: and reprove one that hath understanding, and he will understand knowledge.
         </p><p id="proverbs-19-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> He that wasteth his father, and chaseth away his mother, is a son that causeth shame, and bringeth reproach.
         </p><p id="proverbs-19-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> Cease, my son, to hear the instruction that causeth to err from the words of knowledge.
         </p><p id="proverbs-19-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> An ungodly witness scorneth judgment: and the mouth of the wicked devoureth iniquity.
         </p><p id="proverbs-19-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> Judgments are prepared for scorners, and stripes for the back of fools.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-20">Chapter 20</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-20-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging: and whosoever is deceived thereby is not wise.
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> The fear of a king is as the roaring of a lion: whoso provoketh him to anger sinneth against his own soul.
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> It is an honour for a man to cease from strife: but every fool will be meddling.
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> The sluggard will not plow by reason of the cold; therefore shall he beg in harvest, and have nothing.
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Counsel in the heart of man is like deep water; but a man of understanding will draw it out.
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Most men will proclaim every one his own goodness: but a faithful man who can find?
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> The just man walketh in his integrity: his children are blessed after him.
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> A king that sitteth in the throne of judgment scattereth away all evil with his eyes.
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Who can say, I have made my heart clean, I am pure from my sin?
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Divers weights, and divers measures, both of them are alike abomination to the LORD.
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Even a child is known by his doings, whether his work be pure, and whether it be right.
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> The hearing ear, and the seeing eye, the LORD hath made even both of them.
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Love not sleep, lest thou come to poverty; open thine eyes, and thou shalt be satisfied with bread.
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> It is naught, it is naught, saith the buyer: but when he is gone his way, then he boasteth.
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> There is gold, and a multitude of rubies: but the lips of knowledge are a precious jewel.
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Take his garment that is surety for a stranger: and take a pledge of him for a strange woman.
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Bread of deceit is sweet to a man; but afterwards his mouth shall be filled with gravel.
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Every purpose is established by counsel: and with good advice make war.
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> He that goeth about as a talebearer revealeth secrets: therefore meddle not with him that flattereth with his lips.
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Whoso curseth his father or his mother, his lamp shall be put out in obscure darkness.
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> An inheritance may be gotten hastily at the beginning; but the end thereof shall not be blessed.
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> Say not thou, I will recompense evil; but wait on the LORD, and he shall save thee.
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> Divers weights are an abomination unto the LORD; and a false balance is not good.
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> Man's goings are of the LORD; how can a man then understand his own way?
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> It is a snare to the man who devoureth that which is holy, and after vows to make enquiry.
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> A wise king scattereth the wicked, and bringeth the wheel over them.
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> The spirit of man is the candle of the LORD, searching all the inward parts of the belly.
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> Mercy and truth preserve the king: and his throne is upholden by mercy.
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> The glory of young men is their strength: and the beauty of old men is the grey head.
         </p><p id="proverbs-20-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> The blueness of a wound cleanseth away evil: so do stripes the inward parts of the belly.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-21">Chapter 21</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-21-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> The king's heart is in the hand of the LORD, as the rivers of water: he turneth it whithersoever he will.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Every way of a man is right in his own eyes: but the LORD pondereth the hearts.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> To do justice and judgment is more acceptable to the LORD than sacrifice.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> An high look, and a proud heart, and the plowing of the wicked, is sin.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> The thoughts of the diligent tend only to plenteousness; but of every one that is hasty only to want.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> The getting of treasures by a lying tongue is a vanity tossed to and fro of them that seek death.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> The robbery of the wicked shall destroy them; because they refuse to do judgment.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> The way of man is froward and strange: but as for the pure, his work is right.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> It is better to dwell in a corner of the housetop, than with a brawling woman in a wide house.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> The soul of the wicked desireth evil: his neighbour findeth no favour in his eyes.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> When the scorner is punished, the simple is made wise: and when the wise is instructed, he receiveth knowledge.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> The righteous man wisely considereth the house of the wicked: but God overthroweth the wicked for their wickedness.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Whoso stoppeth his ears at the cry of the poor, he also shall cry himself, but shall not be heard.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> A gift in secret pacifieth anger: and a reward in the bosom strong wrath.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> It is joy to the just to do judgment: but destruction shall be to the workers of iniquity.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> The man that wandereth out of the way of understanding shall remain in the congregation of the dead.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> He that loveth pleasure shall be a poor man: he that loveth wine and oil shall not be rich.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> The wicked shall be a ransom for the righteous, and the transgressor for the upright.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> It is better to dwell in the wilderness, than with a contentious and an angry woman.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> There is treasure to be desired and oil in the dwelling of the wise; but a foolish man spendeth it up.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> He that followeth after righteousness and mercy findeth life, righteousness, and honour.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> A wise man scaleth the city of the mighty, and casteth down the strength of the confidence thereof.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> Whoso keepeth his mouth and his tongue keepeth his soul from troubles.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> Proud and haughty scorner is his name, who dealeth in proud wrath.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> The desire of the slothful killeth him; for his hands refuse to labour.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> He coveteth greedily all the day long: but the righteous giveth and spareth not.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> The sacrifice of the wicked is abomination: how much more, when he bringeth it with a wicked mind?
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> A false witness shall perish: but the man that heareth speaketh constantly.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> A wicked man hardeneth his face: but as for the upright, he directeth his way.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> There is no wisdom nor understanding nor counsel against the LORD.
         </p><p id="proverbs-21-31"><span class="num-verse-rw">31</span> The horse is prepared against the day of battle: but safety is of the LORD.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-22">Chapter 22</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-22-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> A GOOD name is rather to be chosen than great riches, and loving favour rather than silver and gold.
         </p><p id="proverbs-22-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> The rich and poor meet together: the LORD is the maker of them all.
         </p><p id="proverbs-22-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> A prudent man foreseeth the evil, and hideth himself: but the simple pass on, and are punished.
         </p><p id="proverbs-22-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> By humility and the fear of the LORD are riches, and honour, and life.
         </p><p id="proverbs-22-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Thorns and snares are in the way of the froward: he that doth keep his soul shall be far from them.
         </p><p id="proverbs-22-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it.
         </p><p id="proverbs-22-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> The rich ruleth over the poor, and the borrower is servant to the lender.
         </p><p id="proverbs-22-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> He that soweth iniquity shall reap vanity: and the rod of his anger shall fail.
         </p><p id="proverbs-22-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> He that hath a bountiful eye shall be blessed; for he giveth of his bread to the poor.
         </p><p id="proverbs-22-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Cast out the scorner, and contention shall go out; yea, strife and reproach shall cease.
         </p><p id="proverbs-22-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> He that loveth pureness of heart, for the grace of his lips the king shall be his friend.
         </p><p id="proverbs-22-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> The eyes of the LORD preserve knowledge, and he overthroweth the words of the transgressor.
         </p><p id="proverbs-22-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> The slothful man saith, There is a lion without, I shall be slain in the streets.
         </p><p id="proverbs-22-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> The mouth of strange women is a deep pit: he that is abhorred of the LORD shall fall therein.
         </p><p id="proverbs-22-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Foolishness is bound in the heart of a child; but the rod of correction shall drive it far from him.
         </p><p id="proverbs-22-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> He that oppresseth the poor to increase his riches, and he that giveth to the rich, shall surely come to want.
         </p><p id="proverbs-22-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Bow down thine ear, and hear the words of the wise, and apply thine heart unto my knowledge.
         </p><p id="proverbs-22-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> For it is a pleasant thing if thou keep them within thee; they shall withal be fitted in thy lips.
         </p><p id="proverbs-22-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> That thy trust may be in the LORD, I have made known to thee this day, even to thee.
         </p><p id="proverbs-22-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Have not I written to thee excellent things in counsels and knowledge,
         </p><p id="proverbs-22-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> That I might make thee know the certainty of the words of truth; that thou mightest answer the words of truth to them that send unto thee?
         </p><p id="proverbs-22-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> Rob not the poor, because he is poor: neither oppress the afflicted in the gate:
         </p><p id="proverbs-22-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> For the LORD will plead their cause, and spoil the soul of those that spoiled them.
         </p><p id="proverbs-22-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> Make no friendship with an angry man; and with a furious man thou shalt not go:
         </p><p id="proverbs-22-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> Lest thou learn his ways, and get a snare to thy soul.
         </p><p id="proverbs-22-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> Be not thou one of them that strike hands, or of them that are sureties for debts.
         </p><p id="proverbs-22-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> If thou hast nothing to pay, why should he take away thy bed from under thee?
         </p><p id="proverbs-22-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> Remove not the ancient landmark, which thy fathers have set.
         </p><p id="proverbs-22-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> Seest thou a man diligent in his business? he shall stand before kings; he shall not stand before mean men.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-23">Chapter 23</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-23-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> When thou sittest to eat with a ruler, consider diligently what is before thee:
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> And put a knife to thy throat, if thou be a man given to appetite.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Be not desirous of his dainties: for they are deceitful meat.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Labour not to be rich: cease from thine own wisdom.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Wilt thou set thine eyes upon that which is not? for riches certainly make themselves wings; they fly away as an eagle toward heaven.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Eat thou not the bread of him that hath an evil eye, neither desire thou his dainty meats:
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he: Eat and drink, saith he to thee; but his heart is not with thee.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> The morsel which thou hast eaten shalt thou vomit up, and lose thy sweet words.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Speak not in the ears of a fool: for he will despise the wisdom of thy words.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Remove not the old landmark; and enter not into the fields of the fatherless:
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> For their redeemer is mighty; he shall plead their cause with thee.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Apply thine heart unto instruction, and thine ears to the words of knowledge.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Withhold not correction from the child: for if thou beatest him with the rod, he shall not die.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Thou shalt beat him with the rod, and shalt deliver his soul from hell.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> My son, if thine heart be wise, my heart shall rejoice, even mine.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Yea, my reins shall rejoice, when thy lips speak right things.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Let not thine heart envy sinners: but be thou in the fear of the LORD all the day long.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> For surely there is an end; and thine expectation shall not be cut off.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Hear thou, my son, and be wise, and guide thine heart in the way.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Be not among winebibbers; among riotous eaters of flesh:
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> For the drunkard and the glutton shall come to poverty: and drowsiness shall clothe a man with rags.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> Hearken unto thy father that begat thee, and despise not thy mother when she is old.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> Buy the truth, and sell it not; also wisdom, and instruction, and understanding.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> The father of the righteous shall greatly rejoice: and he that begetteth a wise child shall have joy of him.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> Thy father and thy mother shall be glad, and she that bare thee shall rejoice.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> My son, give me thine heart, and let thine eyes observe my ways.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> For a whore is a deep ditch; and a strange woman is a narrow pit.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> She also lieth in wait as for a prey, and increaseth the transgressors among men.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> Who hath woe? who hath sorrow? who hath contentions? who hath babbling? who hath wounds without cause? who hath redness of eyes?
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> They that tarry long at the wine; they that go to seek mixed wine.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-31"><span class="num-verse-rw">31</span> Look not thou upon the wine when it is red, when it giveth his colour in the cup, when it moveth itself aright.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-32"><span class="num-verse-rw">32</span> At the last it biteth like a serpent, and stingeth like an adder.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-33"><span class="num-verse-rw">33</span> Thine eyes shall behold strange women, and thine heart shall utter perverse things.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-34"><span class="num-verse-rw">34</span> Yea, thou shalt be as he that lieth down in the midst of the sea, or as he that lieth upon the top of a mast.
         </p><p id="proverbs-23-35"><span class="num-verse-rw">35</span> They have stricken me, shalt thou say, and I was not sick; they have beaten me, and I felt it not: when shall I awake? I will seek it yet again.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-24">Chapter 24</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-24-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Be not thou envious against evil men, neither desire to be with them.
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> For their heart studieth destruction, and their lips talk of mischief.
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Through wisdom is an house builded; and by understanding it is established:
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> And by knowledge shall the chambers be filled with all precious and pleasant riches.
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> A wise man is strong; yea, a man of knowledge increaseth strength.
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> For by wise counsel thou shalt make thy war: and in multitude of counsellors there is safety.
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Wisdom is too high for a fool: he openeth not his mouth in the gate.
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> He that deviseth to do evil shall be called a mischievous person.
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> The thought of foolishness is sin: and the scorner is an abomination to men.
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> If thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is small.
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> If thou forbear to deliver them that are drawn unto death, and those that are ready to be slain;
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> If thou sayest, Behold, we knew it not; doth not he that pondereth the heart consider it? and he that keepeth thy soul, doth not he know it? and shall not he render to every man according to his works?
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> My son, eat thou honey, because it is good; and the honeycomb, which is sweet to thy taste:
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> So shall the knowledge of wisdom be unto thy soul: when thou hast found it, then there shall be a reward, and thy expectation shall not be cut off.
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Lay not wait, O wicked man, against the dwelling of the righteous; spoil not his resting place:
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> For a just man falleth seven times, and riseth up again: but the wicked shall fall into mischief.
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Rejoice not when thine enemy falleth, and let not thine heart be glad when he stumbleth:
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Lest the LORD see it, and it displease him, and he turn away his wrath from him.
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Fret not thyself because of evil men, neither be thou envious at the wicked:
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> For there shall be no reward to the evil man; the candle of the wicked shall be put out.
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> My son, fear thou the LORD and the king: and meddle not with them that are given to change:
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> For their calamity shall rise suddenly; and who knoweth the ruin of them both?
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> These things also belong to the wise. It is not good to have respect of persons in judgment.
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> He that saith unto the wicked, Thou are righteous; him shall the people curse, nations shall abhor him:
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> But to them that rebuke him shall be delight, and a good blessing shall come upon them.
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> Every man shall kiss his lips that giveth a right answer.
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> Prepare thy work without, and make it fit for thyself in the field; and afterwards build thine house.
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> Be not a witness against thy neighbour without cause; and deceive not with thy lips.
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> Say not, I will do so to him as he hath done to me: I will render to the man according to his work.
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> I went by the field of the slothful, and by the vineyard of the man void of understanding;
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-31"><span class="num-verse-rw">31</span> And, lo, it was all grown over with thorns, and nettles had covered the face thereof, and the stone wall thereof was broken down.
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-32"><span class="num-verse-rw">32</span> Then I saw, and considered it well: I looked upon it, and received instruction.
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-33"><span class="num-verse-rw">33</span> Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep:
         </p><p id="proverbs-24-34"><span class="num-verse-rw">34</span> So shall thy poverty come as one that travelleth; and thy want as an armed man.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-25">Chapter 25</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-25-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> These are also proverbs of Solomon, which the men of Hezekiah king of Judah copied out.
         </p><p id="proverbs-25-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> It is the glory of God to conceal a thing: but the honour of kings is to search out a matter.
         </p><p id="proverbs-25-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> The heaven for height, and the earth for depth, and the heart of kings is unsearchable.
         </p><p id="proverbs-25-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Take away the dross from the silver, and there shall come forth a vessel for the finer.
         </p><p id="proverbs-25-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Take away the wicked from before the king, and his throne shall be established in righteousness.
         </p><p id="proverbs-25-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Put not forth thyself in the presence of the king, and stand not in the place of great men:
         </p><p id="proverbs-25-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> For better it is that it be said unto thee, Come up hither; than that thou shouldest be put lower in the presence of the prince whom thine eyes have seen.
         </p><p id="proverbs-25-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Go not forth hastily to strive, lest thou know not what to do in the end thereof, when thy neighbour hath put thee to shame.
         </p><p id="proverbs-25-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Debate thy cause with thy neighbour himself; and discover not a secret to another:
         </p><p id="proverbs-25-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Lest he that heareth it put thee to shame, and thine infamy turn not away.
         </p><p id="proverbs-25-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in pictures of silver.
         </p><p id="proverbs-25-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> As an earring of gold, and an ornament of fine gold, so is a wise reprover upon an obedient ear.
         </p><p id="proverbs-25-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> As the cold of snow in the time of harvest, so is a faithful messenger to them that send him: for he refresheth the soul of his masters.
         </p><p id="proverbs-25-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Whoso boasteth himself of a false gift is like clouds and wind without rain.
         </p><p id="proverbs-25-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> By long forbearing is a prince persuaded, and a soft tongue breaketh the bone.
         </p><p id="proverbs-25-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Hast thou found honey? eat so much as is sufficient for thee, lest thou be filled therewith, and vomit it.
         </p><p id="proverbs-25-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Withdraw thy foot from thy neighbour's house; lest he be weary of thee, and so hate thee.
         </p><p id="proverbs-25-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> A man that beareth false witness against his neighbour is a maul, and a sword, and a sharp arrow.
         </p><p id="proverbs-25-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Confidence in an unfaithful man in time of trouble is like a broken tooth, and a foot out of joint.
         </p><p id="proverbs-25-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> As he that taketh away a garment in cold weather, and as vinegar upon nitre, so is he that singeth songs to an heavy heart.
         </p><p id="proverbs-25-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> If thine enemy be hungry, give him bread to eat; and if he be thirsty, give him water to drink:
         </p><p id="proverbs-25-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> For thou shalt heap coals of fire upon his head, and the LORD shall reward thee.
         </p><p id="proverbs-25-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> The north wind driveth away rain: so doth an angry countenance a backbiting tongue.
         </p><p id="proverbs-25-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> It is better to dwell in the corner of the housetop, than with a brawling woman and in a wide house.
         </p><p id="proverbs-25-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> As cold waters to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far country.
         </p><p id="proverbs-25-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> A righteous man falling down before the wicked is as a troubled fountain, and a corrupt spring.
         </p><p id="proverbs-25-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> It is not good to eat much honey: so for men to search their own glory is not glory.
         </p><p id="proverbs-25-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> He that hath no rule over his own spirit is like a city that is broken down, and without walls.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-26">Chapter 26</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-26-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> As snow in summer, and as rain in harvest, so honour is not seemly for a fool.
         </p><p id="proverbs-26-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> As the bird by wandering, as the swallow by flying, so the curse causeless shall not come.
         </p><p id="proverbs-26-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> A whip for the horse, a bridle for the ass, and a rod for the fool's back.
         </p><p id="proverbs-26-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest thou also be like unto him.
         </p><p id="proverbs-26-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own conceit.
         </p><p id="proverbs-26-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> He that sendeth a message by the hand of a fool cutteth off the feet, and drinketh damage.
         </p><p id="proverbs-26-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> The legs of the lame are not equal: so is a parable in the mouth of fools.
         </p><p id="proverbs-26-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> As he that bindeth a stone in a sling, so is he that giveth honour to a fool.
         </p><p id="proverbs-26-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> As a thorn goeth up into the hand of a drunkard, so is a parable in the mouths of fools.
         </p><p id="proverbs-26-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> The great God that formed all things both rewardeth the fool, and rewardeth transgressors.
         </p><p id="proverbs-26-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> As a dog returneth to his vomit, so a fool returneth to his folly.
         </p><p id="proverbs-26-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Seest thou a man wise in his own conceit? there is more hope of a fool than of him.
         </p><p id="proverbs-26-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> The slothful man saith, There is a lion in the way; a lion is in the streets.
         </p><p id="proverbs-26-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> As the door turneth upon his hinges, so doth the slothful upon his bed.
         </p><p id="proverbs-26-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> The slothful hideth his hand in his bosom; it grieveth him to bring it again to his mouth.
         </p><p id="proverbs-26-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> The sluggard is wiser in his own conceit than seven men that can render a reason.
         </p><p id="proverbs-26-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> He that passeth by, and meddleth with strife belonging not to him, is like one that taketh a dog by the ears.
         </p><p id="proverbs-26-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> As a mad man who casteth firebrands, arrows, and death,
         </p><p id="proverbs-26-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> So is the man that deceiveth his neighbour, and saith, Am not I in sport?
         </p><p id="proverbs-26-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Where no wood is, there the fire goeth out: so where there is no talebearer, the strife ceaseth.
         </p><p id="proverbs-26-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> As coals are to burning coals, and wood to fire; so is a contentious man to kindle strife.
         </p><p id="proverbs-26-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> The words of a talebearer are as wounds, and they go down into the innermost parts of the belly.
         </p><p id="proverbs-26-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> Burning lips and a wicked heart are like a potsherd covered with silver dross.
         </p><p id="proverbs-26-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> He that hateth dissembleth with his lips, and layeth up deceit within him;
         </p><p id="proverbs-26-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> When he speaketh fair, believe him not: for there are seven abominations in his heart.
         </p><p id="proverbs-26-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> Whose hatred is covered by deceit, his wickedness shall be shewed before the whole congregation.
         </p><p id="proverbs-26-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> Whoso diggeth a pit shall fall therein: and he that rolleth a stone, it will return upon him.
         </p><p id="proverbs-26-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> A lying tongue hateth those that are afflicted by it; and a flattering mouth worketh ruin.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-27">Chapter 27</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-27-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Boast not thyself of to morrow; for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth.
         </p><p id="proverbs-27-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Let another man praise thee, and not thine own mouth; a stranger, and not thine own lips.
         </p><p id="proverbs-27-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> A stone is heavy, and the sand weighty; but a fool's wrath is heavier than them both.
         </p><p id="proverbs-27-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Wrath is cruel, and anger is outrageous; but who is able to stand before envy?
         </p><p id="proverbs-27-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Open rebuke is better than secret love.
         </p><p id="proverbs-27-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Faithful are the wounds of a friend; but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful.
         </p><p id="proverbs-27-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> The full soul loatheth an honeycomb; but to the hungry soul every bitter thing is sweet.
         </p><p id="proverbs-27-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> As a bird that wandereth from her nest, so is a man that wandereth from his place.
         </p><p id="proverbs-27-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Ointment and perfume rejoice the heart: so doth the sweetness of a man's friend by hearty counsel.
         </p><p id="proverbs-27-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Thine own friend, and thy father's friend, forsake not; neither go into thy brother's house in the day of thy calamity: for better is a neighbour that is near than a brother far off.
         </p><p id="proverbs-27-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> My son, be wise, and make my heart glad, that I may answer him that reproacheth me.
         </p><p id="proverbs-27-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> A prudent man foreseeth the evil, and hideth himself; but the simple pass on, and are punished.
         </p><p id="proverbs-27-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Take his garment that is surety for a stranger, and take a pledge of him for a strange woman.
         </p><p id="proverbs-27-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> He that blesseth his friend with a loud voice, rising early in the morning, it shall be counted a curse to him.
         </p><p id="proverbs-27-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> A continual dropping in a very rainy day and a contentious woman are alike.
         </p><p id="proverbs-27-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Whosoever hideth her hideth the wind, and the ointment of his right hand, which bewrayeth itself.
         </p><p id="proverbs-27-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Iron sharpeneth iron; so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend.
         </p><p id="proverbs-27-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Whoso keepeth the fig tree shall eat the fruit thereof: so he that waiteth on his master shall be honoured.
         </p><p id="proverbs-27-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> As in water face answereth to face, so the heart of man to man.
         </p><p id="proverbs-27-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Hell and destruction are never full; so the eyes of man are never satisfied.
         </p><p id="proverbs-27-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> As the fining pot for silver, and the furnace for gold; so is a man to his praise.
         </p><p id="proverbs-27-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> Though thou shouldest bray a fool in a mortar among wheat with a pestle, yet will not his foolishness depart from him.
         </p><p id="proverbs-27-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> Be thou diligent to know the state of thy flocks, and look well to thy herds.
         </p><p id="proverbs-27-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> For riches are not for ever: and doth the crown endure to every generation?
         </p><p id="proverbs-27-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> The hay appeareth, and the tender grass sheweth itself, and herbs of the mountains are gathered.
         </p><p id="proverbs-27-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> The lambs are for thy clothing, and the goats are the price of the field.
         </p><p id="proverbs-27-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> And thou shalt have goats' milk enough for thy food, for the food of thy household, and for the maintenance for thy maidens.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-28">Chapter 28</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-28-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> The wicked flee when no man pursueth: but the righteous are bold as a lion.
         </p><p id="proverbs-28-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> For the transgression of a land many are the princes thereof: but by a man of understanding and knowledge the state thereof shall be prolonged.
         </p><p id="proverbs-28-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> A poor man that oppresseth the poor is like a sweeping rain which leaveth no food.
         </p><p id="proverbs-28-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> They that forsake the law praise the wicked: but such as keep the law contend with them.
         </p><p id="proverbs-28-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Evil men understand not judgment: but they that seek the LORD understand all things.
         </p><p id="proverbs-28-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Better is the poor that walketh in his uprightness, than he that is perverse in his ways, though he be rich.
         </p><p id="proverbs-28-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Whoso keepeth the law is a wise son: but he that is a companion of riotous men shameth his father.
         </p><p id="proverbs-28-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> He that by usury and unjust gain increaseth his substance, he shall gather it for him that will pity the poor.
         </p><p id="proverbs-28-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> He that turneth away his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer shall be abomination.
         </p><p id="proverbs-28-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Whoso causeth the righteous to go astray in an evil way, he shall fall himself into his own pit: but the upright shall have good things in possession.
         </p><p id="proverbs-28-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> The rich man is wise in his own conceit; but the poor that hath understanding searcheth him out.
         </p><p id="proverbs-28-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> When righteous men do rejoice, there is great glory: but when the wicked rise, a man is hidden.
         </p><p id="proverbs-28-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> He that covereth his sins shall not prosper: but whoso confesseth and forsaketh them shall have mercy.
         </p><p id="proverbs-28-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Happy is the man that feareth alway: but he that hardeneth his heart shall fall into mischief.
         </p><p id="proverbs-28-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> As a roaring lion, and a ranging bear; so is a wicked ruler over the poor people.
         </p><p id="proverbs-28-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> The prince that wanteth understanding is also a great oppressor: but he that hateth covetousness shall prolong his days.
         </p><p id="proverbs-28-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> A man that doeth violence to the blood of any person shall flee to the pit; let no man stay him.
         </p><p id="proverbs-28-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Whoso walketh uprightly shall be saved: but he that is perverse in his ways shall fall at once.
         </p><p id="proverbs-28-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> He that tilleth his land shall have plenty of bread: but he that followeth after vain persons shall have poverty enough.
         </p><p id="proverbs-28-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> A faithful man shall abound with blessings: but he that maketh haste to be rich shall not be innocent.
         </p><p id="proverbs-28-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> To have respect of persons is not good: for for a piece of bread that man will transgress.
         </p><p id="proverbs-28-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> He that hasteth to be rich hath an evil eye, and considereth not that poverty shall come upon him.
         </p><p id="proverbs-28-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> He that rebuketh a man afterwards shall find more favour than he that flattereth with the tongue.
         </p><p id="proverbs-28-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> Whoso robbeth his father or his mother, and saith, It is no transgression; the same is the companion of a destroyer.
         </p><p id="proverbs-28-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> He that is of a proud heart stirreth up strife: but he that putteth his trust in the LORD shall be made fat.
         </p><p id="proverbs-28-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> He that trusteth in his own heart is a fool: but whoso walketh wisely, he shall be delivered.
         </p><p id="proverbs-28-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> He that giveth unto the poor shall not lack: but he that hideth his eyes shall have many a curse.
         </p><p id="proverbs-28-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> When the wicked rise, men hide themselves: but when they perish, the righteous increase.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-29">Chapter 29</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-29-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> He, that being often reproved hardeneth his neck, shall suddenly be destroyed, and that without remedy.
         </p><p id="proverbs-29-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> When the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice: but when the wicked beareth rule, the people mourn.
         </p><p id="proverbs-29-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Whoso loveth wisdom rejoiceth his father: but he that keepeth company with harlots spendeth his substance.
         </p><p id="proverbs-29-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> The king by judgment establisheth the land: but he that receiveth gifts overthroweth it.
         </p><p id="proverbs-29-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> A man that flattereth his neighbour spreadeth a net for his feet.
         </p><p id="proverbs-29-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> In the transgression of an evil man there is a snare: but the righteous doth sing and rejoice.
         </p><p id="proverbs-29-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> The righteous considereth the cause of the poor: but the wicked regardeth not to know it.
         </p><p id="proverbs-29-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Scornful men bring a city into a snare: but wise men turn away wrath.
         </p><p id="proverbs-29-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> If a wise man contendeth with a foolish man, whether he rage or laugh, there is no rest.
         </p><p id="proverbs-29-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> The bloodthirsty hate the upright: but the just seek his soul.
         </p><p id="proverbs-29-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> A fool uttereth all his mind: but a wise man keepeth it in till afterwards.
         </p><p id="proverbs-29-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> If a ruler hearken to lies, all his servants are wicked.
         </p><p id="proverbs-29-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> The poor and the deceitful man meet together: the LORD lighteneth both their eyes.
         </p><p id="proverbs-29-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> The king that faithfully judgeth the poor, his throne shall be established for ever.
         </p><p id="proverbs-29-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> The rod and reproof give wisdom: but a child left to himself bringeth his mother to shame.
         </p><p id="proverbs-29-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> When the wicked are multiplied, transgression increaseth: but the righteous shall see their fall.
         </p><p id="proverbs-29-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Correct thy son, and he shall give thee rest; yea, he shall give delight unto thy soul.
         </p><p id="proverbs-29-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Where there is no vision, the people perish: but he that keepeth the law, happy is he.
         </p><p id="proverbs-29-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> A servant will not be corrected by words: for though he understand he will not answer.
         </p><p id="proverbs-29-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Seest thou a man that is hasty in his words? there is more hope of a fool than of him.
         </p><p id="proverbs-29-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> He that delicately bringeth up his servant from a child shall have him become his son at the length.
         </p><p id="proverbs-29-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> An angry man stirreth up strife, and a furious man aboundeth in transgression.
         </p><p id="proverbs-29-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> A man's pride shall bring him low: but honour shall uphold the humble in spirit.
         </p><p id="proverbs-29-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> Whoso is partner with a thief hateth his own soul: he heareth cursing, and bewrayeth it not.
         </p><p id="proverbs-29-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> The fear of man bringeth a snare: but whoso putteth his trust in the LORD shall be safe.
         </p><p id="proverbs-29-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> Many seek the ruler's favour; but every man's judgment cometh from the LORD.
         </p><p id="proverbs-29-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> An unjust man is an abomination to the just: and he that is upright in the way is abomination to the wicked.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-30">Chapter 30</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-30-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> The words of Agur the son of Jakeh, even the prophecy: the man spake unto Ithiel, even unto Ithiel and Ucal,
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Surely I am more brutish than any man, and have not the understanding of a man.
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> I neither learned wisdom, nor have the knowledge of the holy.
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Who hath ascended up into heaven, or descended? who hath gathered the wind in his fists? who hath bound the waters in a garment? who hath established all the ends of the earth? what is his name, and what is his son's name, if thou canst tell?
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Every word of God is pure: he is a shield unto them that put their trust in him.
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Add thou not unto his words, lest he reprove thee, and thou be found a liar.
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Two things have I required of thee; deny me them not before I die:
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Remove far from me vanity and lies: give me neither poverty nor riches; feed me with food convenient for me:
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Lest I be full, and deny thee, and say, Who is the LORD? or lest I be poor, and steal, and take the name of my God in vain.
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Accuse not a servant unto his master, lest he curse thee, and thou be found guilty.
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> There is a generation that curseth their father, and doth not bless their mother.
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> There is a generation that are pure in their own eyes, and yet is not washed from their filthiness.
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> There is a generation, O how lofty are their eyes! and their eyelids are lifted up.
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> There is a generation, whose teeth are as swords, and their jaw teeth as knives, to devour the poor from off the earth, and the needy from among men.
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> The horseleach hath two daughters, crying, Give, give. There are three things that are never satisfied, yea, four things say not, It is enough:
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> The grave; and the barren womb; the earth that is not filled with water; and the fire that saith not, It is enough.
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> The eye that mocketh at his father, and despiseth to obey his mother, the ravens of the valley shall pick it out, and the young eagles shall eat it.
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> There be three things which are too wonderful for me, yea, four which I know not:
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> The way of an eagle in the air; the way of a serpent upon a rock; the way of a ship in the midst of the sea; and the way of a man with a maid.
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Such is the way of an adulterous woman; she eateth, and wipeth her mouth, and saith, I have done no wickedness.
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> For three things the earth is disquieted, and for four which it cannot bear:
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> For a servant when he reigneth; and a fool when he is filled with meat;
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> For an odious woman when she is married; and an handmaid that is heir to her mistress.
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> There be four things which are little upon the earth, but they are exceeding wise:
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> The ants are a people not strong, yet they prepare their meat in the summer;
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> The conies are but a feeble folk, yet make they their houses in the rocks;
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> The locusts have no king, yet go they forth all of them by bands;
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> The spider taketh hold with her hands, and is in kings' palaces.
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> There be three things which go well, yea, four are comely in going:
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> A lion which is strongest among beasts, and turneth not away for any;
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-31"><span class="num-verse-rw">31</span> A greyhound; an he goat also; and a king, against whom there is no rising up.
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-32"><span class="num-verse-rw">32</span> If thou hast done foolishly in lifting up thyself, or if thou hast thought evil, lay thine hand upon thy mouth.
         </p><p id="proverbs-30-33"><span class="num-verse-rw">33</span> Surely the churning of milk bringeth forth butter, and the wringing of the nose bringeth forth blood: so the forcing of wrath bringeth forth strife.
         </p><h2 id="proverbs-31">Chapter 31</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="proverbs-31-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> The words of king Lemuel, the prophecy that his mother taught him.
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> What, my son? and what, the son of my womb? and what, the son of my vows?
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Give not thy strength unto women, nor thy ways to that which destroyeth kings.
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> It is not for kings, O Lemuel, it is not for kings to drink wine; nor for princes strong drink:
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Lest they drink, and forget the law, and pervert the judgment of any of the afflicted.
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Give strong drink unto him that is ready to perish, and wine unto those that be of heavy hearts.
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Let him drink, and forget his poverty, and remember his misery no more.
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Open thy mouth for the dumb in the cause of all such as are appointed to destruction.
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Open thy mouth, judge righteously, and plead the cause of the poor and needy.
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Who can find a virtuous woman? for her price is far above rubies.
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that he shall have no need of spoil.
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> She will do him good and not evil all the days of her life.
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> She seeketh wool, and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands.
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> She is like the merchants' ships; she bringeth her food from afar.
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> She riseth also while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household, and a portion to her maidens.
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> She considereth a field, and buyeth it: with the fruit of her hands she planteth a vineyard.
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> She girdeth her loins with strength, and strengtheneth her arms.
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> She perceiveth that her merchandise is good: her candle goeth not out by night.
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the distaff.
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> She stretcheth out her hand to the poor; yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the needy.
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> She is not afraid of the snow for her household: for all her household are clothed with scarlet.
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> She maketh herself coverings of tapestry; her clothing is silk and purple.
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> Her husband is known in the gates, when he sitteth among the elders of the land.
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> She maketh fine linen, and selleth it; and delivereth girdles unto the merchant.
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> Strength and honour are her clothing; and she shall rejoice in time to come.
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness.
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness.
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her.
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou excellest them all.
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain: but a woman that feareth the LORD, she shall be praised.
         </p><p id="proverbs-31-31"><span class="num-verse-rw">31</span> Give her of the fruit of her hands; and let her own works praise her in the gates.
         </p></section>
	</div>
    </body>
</html>
