<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <title>Haggai</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/kje-bible-books.css" type="text/css"/>
  </head>
  <body>
	<div class="galley-rw">
		<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw exclude-auto-rw page-open-auto-rw" id="Chapter37" epub:type="bodymatter chapter"><div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block38"><h1 id="haggai">Haggai</h1></div><h2 id="haggai-1">Chapter 1</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="haggai-1-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> In the second year of Darius the king, in the sixth month, in the first day of the month, came the word of the LORD by Haggai the prophet unto Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Josedech, the high priest, saying,
         </p><p id="haggai-1-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Thus speaketh the LORD of hosts, saying, This people say, The time is not come, the time that the LORD's house should be built.
         </p><p id="haggai-1-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Then came the word of the LORD by Haggai the prophet, saying,
         </p><p id="haggai-1-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Is it time for you, O ye, to dwell in your cieled houses, and this house lie waste?
         </p><p id="haggai-1-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Now therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts; Consider your ways.
         </p><p id="haggai-1-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Ye have sown much, and bring in little; ye eat, but ye have not enough; ye drink, but ye are not filled with drink; ye clothe you, but there is none warm; and he that earneth wages earneth wages to put it into a bag with holes.
         </p><p id="haggai-1-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Consider your ways.
         </p><p id="haggai-1-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Go up to the mountain, and bring wood, and build the house; and I will take pleasure in it, and I will be glorified, saith the LORD.
         </p><p id="haggai-1-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Ye looked for much, and, lo it came to little; and when ye brought it home, I did blow upon it. Why? saith the LORD of hosts. Because of mine house that is waste, and ye run every man unto his own house.
         </p><p id="haggai-1-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Therefore the heaven over you is stayed from dew, and the earth is stayed from her fruit.
         </p><p id="haggai-1-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> And I called for a drought upon the land, and upon the mountains, and upon the corn, and upon the new wine, and upon the oil, and upon that which the ground bringeth forth, and upon men, and upon cattle, and upon all the labour of the hands.
         </p><p id="haggai-1-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Then Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Joshua the son of Josedech, the high priest, with all the remnant of the people, obeyed the voice of the LORD their God, and the words of Haggai the prophet, as the LORD their God had sent him, and the people did fear before the LORD.
         </p><p id="haggai-1-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Then spake Haggai the LORD's messenger in the LORD's message unto the people, saying, I am with you, saith the LORD.
         </p><p id="haggai-1-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> And the LORD stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua the son of Josedech, the high priest, and the spirit of all the remnant of the people; and they came and did work in the house of the LORD of hosts, their God,
         </p><p id="haggai-1-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> In the four and twentieth day of the sixth month, in the second year of Darius the king.
         </p><h2 id="haggai-2">Chapter 2</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="haggai-2-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> In the seventh month, in the one and twentieth day of the month, came the word of the LORD by the prophet Haggai, saying,
         </p><p id="haggai-2-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Speak now to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Josedech, the high priest, and to the residue of the people, saying,
         </p><p id="haggai-2-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Who is left among you that saw this house in her first glory? and how do ye see it now? is it not in your eyes in comparison of it as nothing?
         </p><p id="haggai-2-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Yet now be strong, O Zerubbabel, saith the LORD; and be strong, O Joshua, son of Josedech, the high priest; and be strong, all ye people of the land, saith the LORD, and work: for I am with you, saith the LORD of hosts:
         </p><p id="haggai-2-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> According to the word that I covenanted with you when ye came out of Egypt, so my spirit remaineth among you: fear ye not.
         </p><p id="haggai-2-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> For thus saith the LORD of hosts; Yet once, it is a little while, and I will shake the heavens, and the earth, and the sea, and the dry land;
         </p><p id="haggai-2-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> And I will shake all nations, and the desire of all nations shall come: and I will fill this house with glory, saith the LORD of hosts.
         </p><p id="haggai-2-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> The silver is mine, and the gold is mine, saith the LORD of hosts.
         </p><p id="haggai-2-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> The glory of this latter house shall be greater than of the former, saith the LORD of hosts: and in this place will I give peace, saith the LORD of hosts.
         </p><p id="haggai-2-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> In the four and twentieth day of the ninth month, in the second year of Darius, came the word of the LORD by Haggai the prophet, saying,
         </p><p id="haggai-2-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Ask now the priests concerning the law, saying,
         </p><p id="haggai-2-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> If one bear holy flesh in the skirt of his garment, and with his skirt do touch bread, or pottage, or wine, or oil, or any meat, shall it be holy? And the priests answered and said, No.
         </p><p id="haggai-2-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Then said Haggai, If one that is unclean by a dead body touch any of these, shall it be unclean? And the priests answered and said, It shall be unclean.
         </p><p id="haggai-2-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Then answered Haggai, and said, So is this people, and so is this nation before me, saith the LORD; and so is every work of their hands; and that which they offer there is unclean.
         </p><p id="haggai-2-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> And now, I pray you, consider from this day and upward, from before a stone was laid upon a stone in the temple of the LORD:
         </p><p id="haggai-2-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Since those days were, when one came to an heap of twenty measures, there were but ten: when one came to the pressfat for to draw out fifty vessels out of the press, there were but twenty.
         </p><p id="haggai-2-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> I smote you with blasting and with mildew and with hail in all the labours of your hands; yet ye turned not to me, saith the LORD.
         </p><p id="haggai-2-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Consider now from this day and upward, from the four and twentieth day of the ninth month, even from the day that the foundation of the LORD's temple was laid, consider it.
         </p><p id="haggai-2-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Is the seed yet in the barn? yea, as yet the vine, and the fig tree, and the pomegranate, and the olive tree, hath not brought forth: from this day will I bless you.
         </p><p id="haggai-2-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> And again the word of the LORD came unto Haggai in the four and twentieth day of the month, saying,
         </p><p id="haggai-2-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> Speak to Zerubbabel, governor of Judah, saying, I will shake the heavens and the earth;
         </p><p id="haggai-2-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> And I will overthrow the throne of kingdoms, and I will destroy the strength of the kingdoms of the heathen; and I will overthrow the chariots, and those that ride in them; and the horses and their riders shall come down, every one by the sword of his brother.
         </p><p id="haggai-2-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> In that day, saith the LORD of hosts, will I take thee, O Zerubbabel, my servant, the son of Shealtiel, saith the LORD, and will make thee as a signet: for I have chosen thee, saith the LORD of hosts.
         </p></section>
	</div>
    <script src="../../acme.js"></script></body></html>
