<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <title>Corinthians 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/kje-bible-books.css" type="text/css"/>
  </head>
  <body>
	<div class="galley-rw">
		<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw exclude-auto-rw page-open-auto-rw" id="Chapter47" epub:type="bodymatter chapter"><div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block49"><h1 id="corinthians2">Corinthians 2</h1></div><h2 id="corinthians2-1">Chapter 1</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="corinthians2-1-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timothy our brother, unto the church of God which is at Corinth, with all the saints which are in all Achaia:
         </p><p id="corinthians2-1-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Grace be to you and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-1-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort;
         </p><p id="corinthians2-1-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Who comforteth us in all our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble, by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-1-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> For as the sufferings of Christ abound in us, so our consolation also aboundeth by Christ.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-1-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> And whether we be afflicted, it is for your consolation and salvation, which is effectual in the enduring of the same sufferings which we also suffer: or whether we be comforted, it is for your consolation and salvation.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-1-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> And our hope of you is stedfast, knowing, that as ye are partakers of the sufferings, so shall ye be also of the consolation.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-1-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> For we would not, brethren, have you ignorant of our trouble which came to us in Asia, that we were pressed out of measure, above strength, insomuch that we despaired even of life:
         </p><p id="corinthians2-1-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> But we had the sentence of death in ourselves, that we should not trust in ourselves, but in God which raiseth the dead:
         </p><p id="corinthians2-1-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Who delivered us from so great a death, and doth deliver: in whom we trust that he will yet deliver us;
         </p><p id="corinthians2-1-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Ye also helping together by prayer for us, that for the gift bestowed upon us by the means of many persons thanks may be given by many on our behalf.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-1-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> For our rejoicing is this, the testimony of our conscience, that in simplicity and godly sincerity, not with fleshly wisdom, but by the grace of God, we have had our conversation in the world, and more abundantly to you-ward.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-1-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> For we write none other things unto you, than what ye read or acknowledge; and I trust ye shall acknowledge even to the end;
         </p><p id="corinthians2-1-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> As also ye have acknowledged us in part, that we are your rejoicing, even as ye also are our's in the day of the Lord Jesus.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-1-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> And in this confidence I was minded to come unto you before, that ye might have a second benefit;
         </p><p id="corinthians2-1-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> And to pass by you into Macedonia, and to come again out of Macedonia unto you, and of you to be brought on my way toward Judaea.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-1-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> When I therefore was thus minded, did I use lightness? or the things that I purpose, do I purpose according to the flesh, that with me there should be yea yea, and nay nay?
         </p><p id="corinthians2-1-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> But as God is true, our word toward you was not yea and nay.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-1-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who was preached among you by us, even by me and Silvanus and Timotheus, was not yea and nay, but in him was yea.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-1-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> For all the promises of God in him are yea, and in him Amen, unto the glory of God by us.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-1-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> Now he which stablisheth us with you in Christ, and hath anointed us, is God;
         </p><p id="corinthians2-1-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> Who hath also sealed us, and given the earnest of the Spirit in our hearts.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-1-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> Moreover I call God for a record upon my soul, that to spare you I came not as yet unto Corinth.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-1-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> Not for that we have dominion over your faith, but are helpers of your joy: for by faith ye stand.
         </p><h2 id="corinthians2-2">Chapter 2</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="corinthians2-2-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> But I determined this with myself, that I would not come again to you in heaviness.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-2-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> For if I make you sorry, who is he then that maketh me glad, but the same which is made sorry by me?
         </p><p id="corinthians2-2-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> And I wrote this same unto you, lest, when I came, I should have sorrow from them of whom I ought to rejoice; having confidence in you all, that my joy is the joy of you all.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-2-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> For out of much affliction and anguish of heart I wrote unto you with many tears; not that ye should be grieved, but that ye might know the love which I have more abundantly unto you.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-2-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> But if any have caused grief, he hath not grieved me, but in part: that I may not overcharge you all.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-2-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Sufficient to such a man is this punishment, which was inflicted of many.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-2-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> So that contrariwise ye ought rather to forgive him, and comfort him, lest perhaps such a one should be swallowed up with overmuch sorrow.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-2-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Wherefore I beseech you that ye would confirm your love toward him.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-2-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> For to this end also did I write, that I might know the proof of you, whether ye be obedient in all things.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-2-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> To whom ye forgive any thing, I forgive also: for if I forgave any thing, to whom I forgave it, for your sakes forgave I it in the person of Christ;
         </p><p id="corinthians2-2-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Lest Satan should get an advantage of us: for we are not ignorant of his devices.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-2-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Furthermore, when I came to Troas to preach Christ's gospel, and a door was opened unto me of the Lord,
         </p><p id="corinthians2-2-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> I had no rest in my spirit, because I found not Titus my brother: but taking my leave of them, I went from thence into Macedonia.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-2-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Now thanks be unto God, which always causeth us to triumph in Christ, and maketh manifest the savour of his knowledge by us in every place.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-2-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> For we are unto God a sweet savour of Christ, in them that are saved, and in them that perish:
         </p><p id="corinthians2-2-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> To the one we are the savour of death unto death; and to the other the savour of life unto life. And who is sufficient for these things?
         </p><p id="corinthians2-2-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> For we are not as many, which corrupt the word of God: but as of sincerity, but as of God, in the sight of God speak we in Christ.
         </p><h2 id="corinthians2-3">Chapter 3</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="corinthians2-3-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Do we begin again to commend ourselves? or need we, as some others, epistles of commendation to you, or letters of commendation from you?
         </p><p id="corinthians2-3-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Ye are our epistle written in our hearts, known and read of all men:
         </p><p id="corinthians2-3-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Forasmuch as ye are manifestly declared to be the epistle of Christ ministered by us, written not with ink, but with the Spirit of the living God; not in tables of stone, but in fleshy tables of the heart.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-3-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> And such trust have we through Christ to God-ward:
         </p><p id="corinthians2-3-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think any thing as of ourselves; but our sufficiency is of God;
         </p><p id="corinthians2-3-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Who also hath made us able ministers of the new testament; not of the letter, but of the spirit: for the letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-3-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> But if the ministration of death, written and engraven in stones, was glorious, so that the children of Israel could not stedfastly behold the face of Moses for the glory of his countenance; which glory was to be done away:
         </p><p id="corinthians2-3-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> How shall not the ministration of the spirit be rather glorious?
         </p><p id="corinthians2-3-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> For if the ministration of condemnation be glory, much more doth the ministration of righteousness exceed in glory.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-3-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> For even that which was made glorious had no glory in this respect, by reason of the glory that excelleth.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-3-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> For if that which is done away was glorious, much more that which remaineth is glorious.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-3-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Seeing then that we have such hope, we use great plainness of speech:
         </p><p id="corinthians2-3-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> And not as Moses, which put a vail over his face, that the children of Israel could not stedfastly look to the end of that which is abolished:
         </p><p id="corinthians2-3-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> But their minds were blinded: for until this day remaineth the same vail untaken away in the reading of the old testament; which vail is done away in Christ.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-3-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> But even unto this day, when Moses is read, the vail is upon their heart.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-3-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Nevertheless when it shall turn to the Lord, the vail shall be taken away.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-3-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Now the Lord is that Spirit: and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-3-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> But we all, with open face beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the LORD.
         </p><h2 id="corinthians2-4">Chapter 4</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="corinthians2-4-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Therefore seeing we have this ministry, as we have received mercy, we faint not;
         </p><p id="corinthians2-4-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> But have renounced the hidden things of dishonesty, not walking in craftiness, nor handling the word of God deceitfully; but by manifestation of the truth commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-4-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> But if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost:
         </p><p id="corinthians2-4-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> In whom the god of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine unto them.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-4-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> For we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord; and ourselves your servants for Jesus' sake.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-4-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> For God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-4-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of God, and not of us.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-4-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed; we are perplexed, but not in despair;
         </p><p id="corinthians2-4-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Persecuted, but not forsaken; cast down, but not destroyed;
         </p><p id="corinthians2-4-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Always bearing about in the body the dying of the Lord Jesus, that the life also of Jesus might be made manifest in our body.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-4-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> For we which live are alway delivered unto death for Jesus' sake, that the life also of Jesus might be made manifest in our mortal flesh.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-4-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> So then death worketh in us, but life in you.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-4-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> We having the same spirit of faith, according as it is written, I believed, and therefore have I spoken; we also believe, and therefore speak;
         </p><p id="corinthians2-4-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Knowing that he which raised up the Lord Jesus shall raise up us also by Jesus, and shall present us with you.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-4-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> For all things are for your sakes, that the abundant grace might through the thanksgiving of many redound to the glory of God.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-4-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> For which cause we faint not; but though our outward man perish, yet the inward man is renewed day by day.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-4-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> For our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory;
         </p><p id="corinthians2-4-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> While we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen: for the things which are seen are temporal; but the things which are not seen are eternal.
         </p><h2 id="corinthians2-5">Chapter 5</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="corinthians2-5-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> For we know that if our earthly house of this tabernacle were dissolved, we have a building of God, an house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-5-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> For in this we groan, earnestly desiring to be clothed upon with our house which is from heaven:
         </p><p id="corinthians2-5-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> If so be that being clothed we shall not be found naked.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-5-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> For we that are in this tabernacle do groan, being burdened: not for that we would be unclothed, but clothed upon, that mortality might be swallowed up of life.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-5-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Now he that hath wrought us for the selfsame thing is God, who also hath given unto us the earnest of the Spirit.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-5-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Therefore we are always confident, knowing that, whilst we are at home in the body, we are absent from the Lord:
         </p><p id="corinthians2-5-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> (For we walk by faith, not by sight:)
         </p><p id="corinthians2-5-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> We are confident, I say, and willing rather to be absent from the body, and to be present with the Lord.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-5-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Wherefore we labour, that, whether present or absent, we may be accepted of him.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-5-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ; that every one may receive the things done in his body, according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-5-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men; but we are made manifest unto God; and I trust also are made manifest in your consciences.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-5-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> For we commend not ourselves again unto you, but give you occasion to glory on our behalf, that ye may have somewhat to answer them which glory in appearance, and not in heart.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-5-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> For whether we be beside ourselves, it is to God: or whether we be sober, it is for your cause.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-5-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> For the love of Christ constraineth us; because we thus judge, that if one died for all, then were all dead:
         </p><p id="corinthians2-5-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> And that he died for all, that they which live should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him which died for them, and rose again.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-5-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Wherefore henceforth know we no man after the flesh: yea, though we have known Christ after the flesh, yet now henceforth know we him no more.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-5-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature: old things are passed away; behold, all things are become new.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-5-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> And all things are of God, who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ, and hath given to us the ministry of reconciliation;
         </p><p id="corinthians2-5-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> To wit, that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them; and hath committed unto us the word of reconciliation.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-5-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Now then we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech you by us: we pray you in Christ's stead, be ye reconciled to God.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-5-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> For he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin; that we might be made the righteousness of God in him.
         </p><h2 id="corinthians2-6">Chapter 6</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="corinthians2-6-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> We then, as workers together with him, beseech you also that ye receive not the grace of God in vain.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-6-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> (For he saith, I have heard thee in a time accepted, and in the day of salvation have I succoured thee: behold, now is the accepted time; behold, now is the day of salvation.)
         </p><p id="corinthians2-6-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Giving no offence in any thing, that the ministry be not blamed:
         </p><p id="corinthians2-6-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> But in all things approving ourselves as the ministers of God, in much patience, in afflictions, in necessities, in distresses,
         </p><p id="corinthians2-6-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> In stripes, in imprisonments, in tumults, in labours, in watchings, in fastings;
         </p><p id="corinthians2-6-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> By pureness, by knowledge, by longsuffering, by kindness, by the Holy Ghost, by love unfeigned,
         </p><p id="corinthians2-6-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> By the word of truth, by the power of God, by the armour of righteousness on the right hand and on the left,
         </p><p id="corinthians2-6-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> By honour and dishonour, by evil report and good report: as deceivers, and yet true;
         </p><p id="corinthians2-6-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> As unknown, and yet well known; as dying, and, behold, we live; as chastened, and not killed;
         </p><p id="corinthians2-6-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> As sorrowful, yet alway rejoicing; as poor, yet making many rich; as having nothing, and yet possessing all things.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-6-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> O ye Corinthians, our mouth is open unto you, our heart is enlarged.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-6-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Ye are not straitened in us, but ye are straitened in your own bowels.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-6-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Now for a recompence in the same, (I speak as unto my children,) be ye also enlarged.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-6-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers: for what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? and what communion hath light with darkness?
         </p><p id="corinthians2-6-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> And what concord hath Christ with Belial? or what part hath he that believeth with an infidel?
         </p><p id="corinthians2-6-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> And what agreement hath the temple of God with idols? for ye are the temple of the living God; as God hath said, I will dwell in them, and walk in them; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-6-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Wherefore come out from among them, and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing; and I will receive you.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-6-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> And will be a Father unto you, and ye shall be my sons and daughters, saith the Lord Almighty.
         </p><h2 id="corinthians2-7">Chapter 7</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="corinthians2-7-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-7-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Receive us; we have wronged no man, we have corrupted no man, we have defrauded no man.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-7-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> I speak not this to condemn you: for I have said before, that ye are in our hearts to die and live with you.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-7-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Great is my boldness of speech toward you, great is my glorying of you: I am filled with comfort, I am exceeding joyful in all our tribulation.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-7-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> For, when we were come into Macedonia, our flesh had no rest, but we were troubled on every side; without were fightings, within were fears.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-7-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Nevertheless God, that comforteth those that are cast down, comforted us by the coming of Titus;
         </p><p id="corinthians2-7-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> And not by his coming only, but by the consolation wherewith he was comforted in you, when he told us your earnest desire, your mourning, your fervent mind toward me; so that I rejoiced the more.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-7-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> For though I made you sorry with a letter, I do not repent, though I did repent: for I perceive that the same epistle hath made you sorry, though it were but for a season.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-7-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Now I rejoice, not that ye were made sorry, but that ye sorrowed to repentance: for ye were made sorry after a godly manner, that ye might receive damage by us in nothing.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-7-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> For godly sorrow worketh repentance to salvation not to be repented of: but the sorrow of the world worketh death.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-7-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> For behold this selfsame thing, that ye sorrowed after a godly sort, what carefulness it wrought in you, yea, what clearing of yourselves, yea, what indignation, yea, what fear, yea, what vehement desire, yea, what zeal, yea, what revenge! In all things ye have approved yourselves to be clear in this matter.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-7-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Wherefore, though I wrote unto you, I did it not for his cause that had done the wrong, nor for his cause that suffered wrong, but that our care for you in the sight of God might appear unto you.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-7-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Therefore we were comforted in your comfort: yea, and exceedingly the more joyed we for the joy of Titus, because his spirit was refreshed by you all.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-7-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> For if I have boasted any thing to him of you, I am not ashamed; but as we spake all things to you in truth, even so our boasting, which I made before Titus, is found a truth.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-7-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> And his inward affection is more abundant toward you, whilst he remembereth the obedience of you all, how with fear and trembling ye received him.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-7-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> I rejoice therefore that I have confidence in you in all things.
         </p><h2 id="corinthians2-8">Chapter 8</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="corinthians2-8-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Moreover, brethren, we do you to wit of the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia;
         </p><p id="corinthians2-8-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> How that in a great trial of affliction the abundance of their joy and their deep poverty abounded unto the riches of their liberality.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-8-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> For to their power, I bear record, yea, and beyond their power they were willing of themselves;
         </p><p id="corinthians2-8-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Praying us with much intreaty that we would receive the gift, and take upon us the fellowship of the ministering to the saints.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-8-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> And this they did, not as we hoped, but first gave their own selves to the Lord, and unto us by the will of God.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-8-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Insomuch that we desired Titus, that as he had begun, so he would also finish in you the same grace also.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-8-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Therefore, as ye abound in every thing, in faith, and utterance, and knowledge, and in all diligence, and in your love to us, see that ye abound in this grace also.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-8-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> I speak not by commandment, but by occasion of the forwardness of others, and to prove the sincerity of your love.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-8-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> For ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that, though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that ye through his poverty might be rich.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-8-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> And herein I give my advice: for this is expedient for you, who have begun before, not only to do, but also to be forward a year ago.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-8-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Now therefore perform the doing of it; that as there was a readiness to will, so there may be a performance also out of that which ye have.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-8-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> For if there be first a willing mind, it is accepted according to that a man hath, and not according to that he hath not.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-8-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> For I mean not that other men be eased, and ye burdened:
         </p><p id="corinthians2-8-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> But by an equality, that now at this time your abundance may be a supply for their want, that their abundance also may be a supply for your want: that there may be equality:
         </p><p id="corinthians2-8-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> As it is written, He that had gathered much had nothing over; and he that had gathered little had no lack.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-8-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> But thanks be to God, which put the same earnest care into the heart of Titus for you.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-8-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> For indeed he accepted the exhortation; but being more forward, of his own accord he went unto you.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-8-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> And we have sent with him the brother, whose praise is in the gospel throughout all the churches;
         </p><p id="corinthians2-8-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> And not that only, but who was also chosen of the churches to travel with us with this grace, which is administered by us to the glory of the same Lord, and declaration of your ready mind:
         </p><p id="corinthians2-8-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Avoiding this, that no man should blame us in this abundance which is administered by us:
         </p><p id="corinthians2-8-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> Providing for honest things, not only in the sight of the Lord, but also in the sight of men.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-8-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> And we have sent with them our brother, whom we have oftentimes proved diligent in many things, but now much more diligent, upon the great confidence which I have in you.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-8-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> Whether any do enquire of Titus, he is my partner and fellowhelper concerning you: or our brethren be enquired of, they are the messengers of the churches, and the glory of Christ.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-8-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> Wherefore shew ye to them, and before the churches, the proof of your love, and of our boasting on your behalf.
         </p><h2 id="corinthians2-9">Chapter 9</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="corinthians2-9-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> For as touching the ministering to the saints, it is superfluous for me to write to you:
         </p><p id="corinthians2-9-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> For I know the forwardness of your mind, for which I boast of you to them of Macedonia, that Achaia was ready a year ago; and your zeal hath provoked very many.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-9-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Yet have I sent the brethren, lest our boasting of you should be in vain in this behalf; that, as I said, ye may be ready:
         </p><p id="corinthians2-9-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> Lest haply if they of Macedonia come with me, and find you unprepared, we (that we say not, ye) should be ashamed in this same confident boasting.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-9-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Therefore I thought it necessary to exhort the brethren, that they would go before unto you, and make up beforehand your bounty, whereof ye had notice before, that the same might be ready, as a matter of bounty, and not as of covetousness.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-9-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> But this I say, He which soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly; and he which soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-9-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Every man according as he purposeth in his heart, so let him give; not grudgingly, or of necessity: for God loveth a cheerful giver.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-9-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> And God is able to make all grace abound toward you; that ye, always having all sufficiency in all things, may abound to every good work:
         </p><p id="corinthians2-9-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> (As it is written, He hath dispersed abroad; he hath given to the poor: his righteousness remaineth for ever.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-9-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Now he that ministereth seed to the sower both minister bread for your food, and multiply your seed sown, and increase the fruits of your righteousness;)
         </p><p id="corinthians2-9-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Being enriched in every thing to all bountifulness, which causeth through us thanksgiving to God.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-9-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> For the administration of this service not only supplieth the want of the saints, but is abundant also by many thanksgivings unto God;
         </p><p id="corinthians2-9-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Whiles by the experiment of this ministration they glorify God for your professed subjection unto the gospel of Christ, and for your liberal distribution unto them, and unto all men;
         </p><p id="corinthians2-9-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> And by their prayer for you, which long after you for the exceeding grace of God in you.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-9-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Thanks be unto God for his unspeakable gift.
         </p><h2 id="corinthians2-10">Chapter 10</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="corinthians2-10-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Now I Paul myself beseech you by the meekness and gentleness of Christ, who in presence am base among you, but being absent am bold toward you:
         </p><p id="corinthians2-10-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> But I beseech you, that I may not be bold when I am present with that confidence, wherewith I think to be bold against some, which think of us as if we walked according to the flesh.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-10-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war after the flesh:
         </p><p id="corinthians2-10-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> (For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strong holds;)
         </p><p id="corinthians2-10-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Casting down imaginations, and every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ;
         </p><p id="corinthians2-10-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> And having in a readiness to revenge all disobedience, when your obedience is fulfilled.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-10-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Do ye look on things after the outward appearance? If any man trust to himself that he is Christ's, let him of himself think this again, that, as he is Christ's, even so are we Christ's.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-10-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> For though I should boast somewhat more of our authority, which the Lord hath given us for edification, and not for your destruction, I should not be ashamed:
         </p><p id="corinthians2-10-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> That I may not seem as if I would terrify you by letters.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-10-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> For his letters, say they, are weighty and powerful; but his bodily presence is weak, and his speech contemptible.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-10-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Let such an one think this, that, such as we are in word by letters when we are absent, such will we be also in deed when we are present.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-10-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> For we dare not make ourselves of the number, or compare ourselves with some that commend themselves: but they measuring themselves by themselves, and comparing themselves among themselves, are not wise.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-10-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> But we will not boast of things without our measure, but according to the measure of the rule which God hath distributed to us, a measure to reach even unto you.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-10-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> For we stretch not ourselves beyond our measure, as though we reached not unto you: for we are come as far as to you also in preaching the gospel of Christ:
         </p><p id="corinthians2-10-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Not boasting of things without our measure, that is, of other men's labours; but having hope, when your faith is increased, that we shall be enlarged by you according to our rule abundantly,
         </p><p id="corinthians2-10-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> To preach the gospel in the regions beyond you, and not to boast in another man's line of things made ready to our hand.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-10-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> But he that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-10-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> For not he that commendeth himself is approved, but whom the Lord commendeth.
         </p><h2 id="corinthians2-11">Chapter 11</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="corinthians2-11-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Would to God ye could bear with me a little in my folly: and indeed bear with me.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> For I am jealous over you with godly jealousy: for I have espoused you to one husband, that I may present you as a chaste virgin to Christ.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> But I fear, lest by any means, as the serpent beguiled Eve through his subtilty, so your minds should be corrupted from the simplicity that is in Christ.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> For if he that cometh preacheth another Jesus, whom we have not preached, or if ye receive another spirit, which ye have not received, or another gospel, which ye have not accepted, ye might well bear with him.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> For I suppose I was not a whit behind the very chiefest apostles.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> But though I be rude in speech, yet not in knowledge; but we have been throughly made manifest among you in all things.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Have I committed an offence in abasing myself that ye might be exalted, because I have preached to you the gospel of God freely?
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> I robbed other churches, taking wages of them, to do you service.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> And when I was present with you, and wanted, I was chargeable to no man: for that which was lacking to me the brethren which came from Macedonia supplied: and in all things I have kept myself from being burdensome unto you, and so will I keep myself.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> As the truth of Christ is in me, no man shall stop me of this boasting in the regions of Achaia.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Wherefore? because I love you not? God knoweth.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> But what I do, that I will do, that I may cut off occasion from them which desire occasion; that wherein they glory, they may be found even as we.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> For such are false apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves into the apostles of Christ.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> And no marvel; for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Therefore it is no great thing if his ministers also be transformed as the ministers of righteousness; whose end shall be according to their works.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> I say again, Let no man think me a fool; if otherwise, yet as a fool receive me, that I may boast myself a little.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> That which I speak, I speak it not after the Lord, but as it were foolishly, in this confidence of boasting.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> Seeing that many glory after the flesh, I will glory also.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> For ye suffer fools gladly, seeing ye yourselves are wise.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> For ye suffer, if a man bring you into bondage, if a man devour you, if a man take of you, if a man exalt himself, if a man smite you on the face.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> I speak as concerning reproach, as though we had been weak. Howbeit whereinsoever any is bold, (I speak foolishly,) I am bold also.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> Are they Hebrews? so am I. Are they Israelites? so am I. Are they the seed of Abraham? so am I.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> Are they ministers of Christ? (I speak as a fool) I am more; in labours more abundant, in stripes above measure, in prisons more frequent, in deaths oft.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> Of the Jews five times received I forty stripes save one.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> Thrice was I beaten with rods, once was I stoned, thrice I suffered shipwreck, a night and a day I have been in the deep;
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-26"><span class="num-verse-rw">26</span> In journeyings often, in perils of waters, in perils of robbers, in perils by mine own countrymen, in perils by the heathen, in perils in the city, in perils in the wilderness, in perils in the sea, in perils among false brethren;
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-27"><span class="num-verse-rw">27</span> In weariness and painfulness, in watchings often, in hunger and thirst, in fastings often, in cold and nakedness.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-28"><span class="num-verse-rw">28</span> Beside those things that are without, that which cometh upon me daily, the care of all the churches.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-29"><span class="num-verse-rw">29</span> Who is weak, and I am not weak? who is offended, and I burn not?
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-30"><span class="num-verse-rw">30</span> If I must needs glory, I will glory of the things which concern mine infirmities.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-31"><span class="num-verse-rw">31</span> The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which is blessed for evermore, knoweth that I lie not.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-32"><span class="num-verse-rw">32</span> In Damascus the governor under Aretas the king kept the city of the Damascenes with a garrison, desirous to apprehend me:
         </p><p id="corinthians2-11-33"><span class="num-verse-rw">33</span> And through a window in a basket was I let down by the wall, and escaped his hands.
         </p><h2 id="corinthians2-12">Chapter 12</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="corinthians2-12-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> It is not expedient for me doubtless to glory. I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-12-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> I knew a man in Christ above fourteen years ago, (whether in the body, I cannot tell; or whether out of the body, I cannot tell: God knoweth;) such an one caught up to the third heaven.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-12-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> And I knew such a man, (whether in the body, or out of the body, I cannot tell: God knoweth;)
         </p><p id="corinthians2-12-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> How that he was caught up into paradise, and heard unspeakable words, which it is not lawful for a man to utter.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-12-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Of such an one will I glory: yet of myself I will not glory, but in mine infirmities.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-12-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> For though I would desire to glory, I shall not be a fool; for I will say the truth: but now I forbear, lest any man should think of me above that which he seeth me to be, or that he heareth of me.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-12-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> And lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-12-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> For this thing I besought the Lord thrice, that it might depart from me.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-12-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee: for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly therefore will I rather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-12-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Therefore I take pleasure in infirmities, in reproaches, in necessities, in persecutions, in distresses for Christ's sake: for when I am weak, then am I strong.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-12-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> I am become a fool in glorying; ye have compelled me: for I ought to have been commended of you: for in nothing am I behind the very chiefest apostles, though I be nothing.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-12-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Truly the signs of an apostle were wrought among you in all patience, in signs, and wonders, and mighty deeds.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-12-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> For what is it wherein ye were inferior to other churches, except it be that I myself was not burdensome to you? forgive me this wrong.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-12-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Behold, the third time I am ready to come to you; and I will not be burdensome to you: for I seek not your's but you: for the children ought not to lay up for the parents, but the parents for the children.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-12-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> And I will very gladly spend and be spent for you; though the more abundantly I love you, the less I be loved.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-12-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> But be it so, I did not burden you: nevertheless, being crafty, I caught you with guile.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-12-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> Did I make a gain of you by any of them whom I sent unto you?
         </p><p id="corinthians2-12-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> I desired Titus, and with him I sent a brother. Did Titus make a gain of you? walked we not in the same spirit? walked we not in the same steps?
         </p><p id="corinthians2-12-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> Again, think ye that we excuse ourselves unto you? we speak before God in Christ: but we do all things, dearly beloved, for your edifying.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-12-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> For I fear, lest, when I come, I shall not find you such as I would, and that I shall be found unto you such as ye would not: lest there be debates, envyings, wraths, strifes, backbitings, whisperings, swellings, tumults:
         </p><p id="corinthians2-12-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> And lest, when I come again, my God will humble me among you, and that I shall bewail many which have sinned already, and have not repented of the uncleanness and fornication and lasciviousness which they have committed.
         </p><h2 id="corinthians2-13">Chapter 13</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="corinthians2-13-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> This is the third time I am coming to you. In the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every word be established.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-13-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> I told you before, and foretell you, as if I were present, the second time; and being absent now I write to them which heretofore have sinned, and to all other, that, if I come again, I will not spare:
         </p><p id="corinthians2-13-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Since ye seek a proof of Christ speaking in me, which to you-ward is not weak, but is mighty in you.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-13-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> For though he was crucified through weakness, yet he liveth by the power of God. For we also are weak in him, but we shall live with him by the power of God toward you.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-13-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Examine yourselves, whether ye be in the faith; prove your own selves. Know ye not your own selves, how that Jesus Christ is in you, except ye be reprobates?
         </p><p id="corinthians2-13-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> But I trust that ye shall know that we are not reprobates.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-13-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Now I pray to God that ye do no evil; not that we should appear approved, but that ye should do that which is honest, though we be as reprobates.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-13-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> For we can do nothing against the truth, but for the truth.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-13-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> For we are glad, when we are weak, and ye are strong: and this also we wish, even your perfection.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-13-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Therefore I write these things being absent, lest being present I should use sharpness, according to the power which the Lord hath given me to edification, and not to destruction.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-13-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Finally, brethren, farewell. Be perfect, be of good comfort, be of one mind, live in peace; and the God of love and peace shall be with you.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-13-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Greet one another with an holy kiss.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-13-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> All the saints salute you.
         </p><p id="corinthians2-13-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the communion of the Holy Ghost, be with you all. Amen.
         </p></section>
	</div>
    </body>
</html>
