<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <title>Titus</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/kje-bible-books.css" type="text/css"/>
  </head>
  <body>
	<div class="galley-rw">
		<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw exclude-auto-rw page-open-auto-rw" id="Chapter56" epub:type="bodymatter chapter"><div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block58"><h1 id="titus">Titus</h1></div><h2 id="titus-1">Chapter 1</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="titus-1-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Paul, a servant of God, and an apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the faith of God's elect, and the acknowledging of the truth which is after godliness;
         </p><p id="titus-1-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> In hope of eternal life, which God, that cannot lie, promised before the world began;
         </p><p id="titus-1-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> But hath in due times manifested his word through preaching, which is committed unto me according to the commandment of God our Saviour;
         </p><p id="titus-1-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> To Titus, mine own son after the common faith: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ our Saviour.
         </p><p id="titus-1-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting, and ordain elders in every city, as I had appointed thee:
         </p><p id="titus-1-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> If any be blameless, the husband of one wife, having faithful children not accused of riot or unruly.
         </p><p id="titus-1-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> For a bishop must be blameless, as the steward of God; not selfwilled, not soon angry, not given to wine, no striker, not given to filthy lucre;
         </p><p id="titus-1-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> But a lover of hospitality, a lover of good men, sober, just, holy, temperate;
         </p><p id="titus-1-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Holding fast the faithful word as he hath been taught, that he may be able by sound doctrine both to exhort and to convince the gainsayers.
         </p><p id="titus-1-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> For there are many unruly and vain talkers and deceivers, specially they of the circumcision:
         </p><p id="titus-1-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Whose mouths must be stopped, who subvert whole houses, teaching things which they ought not, for filthy lucre's sake.
         </p><p id="titus-1-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> One of themselves, even a prophet of their own, said, The Cretians are alway liars, evil beasts, slow bellies.
         </p><p id="titus-1-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> This witness is true. Wherefore rebuke them sharply, that they may be sound in the faith;
         </p><p id="titus-1-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Not giving heed to Jewish fables, and commandments of men, that turn from the truth.
         </p><p id="titus-1-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> Unto the pure all things are pure: but unto them that are defiled and unbelieving is nothing pure; but even their mind and conscience is defiled.
         </p><p id="titus-1-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> They profess that they know God; but in works they deny him, being abominable, and disobedient, and unto every good work reprobate.
         </p><h2 id="titus-2">Chapter 2</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="titus-2-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> But speak thou the things which become sound doctrine:
         </p><p id="titus-2-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> That the aged men be sober, grave, temperate, sound in faith, in charity, in patience.
         </p><p id="titus-2-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> The aged women likewise, that they be in behaviour as becometh holiness, not false accusers, not given to much wine, teachers of good things;
         </p><p id="titus-2-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> That they may teach the young women to be sober, to love their husbands, to love their children,
         </p><p id="titus-2-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> To be discreet, chaste, keepers at home, good, obedient to their own husbands, that the word of God be not blasphemed.
         </p><p id="titus-2-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Young men likewise exhort to be sober minded.
         </p><p id="titus-2-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> In all things shewing thyself a pattern of good works: in doctrine shewing uncorruptness, gravity, sincerity,
         </p><p id="titus-2-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Sound speech, that cannot be condemned; that he that is of the contrary part may be ashamed, having no evil thing to say of you.
         </p><p id="titus-2-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Exhort servants to be obedient unto their own masters, and to please them well in all things; not answering again;
         </p><p id="titus-2-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Not purloining, but shewing all good fidelity; that they may adorn the doctrine of God our Saviour in all things.
         </p><p id="titus-2-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men,
         </p><p id="titus-2-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Teaching us that, denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly, in this present world;
         </p><p id="titus-2-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Saviour Jesus Christ;
         </p><p id="titus-2-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> Who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from all iniquity, and purify unto himself a peculiar people, zealous of good works.
         </p><p id="titus-2-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> These things speak, and exhort, and rebuke with all authority. Let no man despise thee.
         </p><h2 id="titus-3">Chapter 3</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="titus-3-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Put them in mind to be subject to principalities and powers, to obey magistrates, to be ready to every good work,
         </p><p id="titus-3-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> To speak evil of no man, to be no brawlers, but gentle, shewing all meekness unto all men.
         </p><p id="titus-3-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> For we ourselves also were sometimes foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving divers lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful, and hating one another.
         </p><p id="titus-3-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> But after that the kindness and love of God our Saviour toward man appeared,
         </p><p id="titus-3-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us, by the washing of regeneration, and renewing of the Holy Ghost;
         </p><p id="titus-3-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Which he shed on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Saviour;
         </p><p id="titus-3-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> That being justified by his grace, we should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life.
         </p><p id="titus-3-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> This is a faithful saying, and these things I will that thou affirm constantly, that they which have believed in God might be careful to maintain good works. These things are good and profitable unto men.
         </p><p id="titus-3-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> But avoid foolish questions, and genealogies, and contentions, and strivings about the law; for they are unprofitable and vain.
         </p><p id="titus-3-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> A man that is an heretick after the first and second admonition reject;
         </p><p id="titus-3-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Knowing that he that is such is subverted, and sinneth, being condemned of himself.
         </p><p id="titus-3-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> When I shall send Artemas unto thee, or Tychicus, be diligent to come unto me to Nicopolis: for I have determined there to winter.
         </p><p id="titus-3-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Bring Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their journey diligently, that nothing be wanting unto them.
         </p><p id="titus-3-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> And let our's also learn to maintain good works for necessary uses, that they be not unfruitful.
         </p><p id="titus-3-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> All that are with me salute thee. Greet them that love us in the faith. Grace be with you all. Amen.
         </p></section>
	</div>
    <script src="../../acme.js"></script></body></html>
