<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <title>Philemon</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/kje-bible-books.css" type="text/css"/>
  </head>
  <body>
	<div class="galley-rw">
		<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw exclude-auto-rw page-open-auto-rw" id="Chapter57" epub:type="bodymatter chapter"><div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block59"><h1 id="philemon">Philemon</h1></div><h2 id="philemon-1">Chapter 1</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="philemon-1-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> Paul, a prisoner of Jesus Christ, and Timothy our brother, unto Philemon our dearly beloved, and fellowlabourer,
         </p><p id="philemon-1-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> And to our beloved Apphia, and Archippus our fellowsoldier, and to the church in thy house:
         </p><p id="philemon-1-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Grace to you, and peace, from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
         </p><p id="philemon-1-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> I thank my God, making mention of thee always in my prayers,
         </p><p id="philemon-1-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Hearing of thy love and faith, which thou hast toward the Lord Jesus, and toward all saints;
         </p><p id="philemon-1-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> That the communication of thy faith may become effectual by the acknowledging of every good thing which is in you in Christ Jesus.
         </p><p id="philemon-1-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> For we have great joy and consolation in thy love, because the bowels of the saints are refreshed by thee, brother.
         </p><p id="philemon-1-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Wherefore, though I might be much bold in Christ to enjoin thee that which is convenient,
         </p><p id="philemon-1-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Yet for love's sake I rather beseech thee, being such an one as Paul the aged, and now also a prisoner of Jesus Christ.
         </p><p id="philemon-1-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> I beseech thee for my son Onesimus, whom I have begotten in my bonds:
         </p><p id="philemon-1-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Which in time past was to thee unprofitable, but now profitable to thee and to me:
         </p><p id="philemon-1-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Whom I have sent again: thou therefore receive him, that is, mine own bowels:
         </p><p id="philemon-1-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> Whom I would have retained with me, that in thy stead he might have ministered unto me in the bonds of the gospel:
         </p><p id="philemon-1-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> But without thy mind would I do nothing; that thy benefit should not be as it were of necessity, but willingly.
         </p><p id="philemon-1-15"><span class="num-verse-rw">15</span> For perhaps he therefore departed for a season, that thou shouldest receive him for ever;
         </p><p id="philemon-1-16"><span class="num-verse-rw">16</span> Not now as a servant, but above a servant, a brother beloved, specially to me, but how much more unto thee, both in the flesh, and in the Lord?
         </p><p id="philemon-1-17"><span class="num-verse-rw">17</span> If thou count me therefore a partner, receive him as myself.
         </p><p id="philemon-1-18"><span class="num-verse-rw">18</span> If he hath wronged thee, or oweth thee ought, put that on mine account;
         </p><p id="philemon-1-19"><span class="num-verse-rw">19</span> I Paul have written it with mine own hand, I will repay it: albeit I do not say to thee how thou owest unto me even thine own self besides.
         </p><p id="philemon-1-20"><span class="num-verse-rw">20</span> Yea, brother, let me have joy of thee in the Lord: refresh my bowels in the Lord.
         </p><p id="philemon-1-21"><span class="num-verse-rw">21</span> Having confidence in thy obedience I wrote unto thee, knowing that thou wilt also do more than I say.
         </p><p id="philemon-1-22"><span class="num-verse-rw">22</span> But withal prepare me also a lodging: for I trust that through your prayers I shall be given unto you.
         </p><p id="philemon-1-23"><span class="num-verse-rw">23</span> There salute thee Epaphras, my fellowprisoner in Christ Jesus;
         </p><p id="philemon-1-24"><span class="num-verse-rw">24</span> Marcus, Aristarchus, Demas, Lucas, my fellowlabourers.
         </p><p id="philemon-1-25"><span class="num-verse-rw">25</span> The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.
         </p></section>
	</div>
    <script src="../../acme.js"></script></body></html>
