<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <title>John 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/kje-bible-books.css" type="text/css"/>
  </head>
  <body>
	<div class="galley-rw">
		<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw exclude-auto-rw page-open-auto-rw" id="Chapter63" epub:type="bodymatter chapter"><div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block65"><h1 id="john2">John 2</h1></div><h2 id="john2-1">Chapter 1</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="john2-1-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> The elder unto the elect lady and her children, whom I love in the truth; and not I only, but also all they that have known the truth;
         </p><p id="john2-1-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> For the truth's sake, which dwelleth in us, and shall be with us for ever.
         </p><p id="john2-1-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> Grace be with you, mercy, and peace, from God the Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love.
         </p><p id="john2-1-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> I rejoiced greatly that I found of thy children walking in truth, as we have received a commandment from the Father.
         </p><p id="john2-1-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> And now I beseech thee, lady, not as though I wrote a new commandment unto thee, but that which we had from the beginning, that we love one another.
         </p><p id="john2-1-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> And this is love, that we walk after his commandments. This is the commandment, That, as ye have heard from the beginning, ye should walk in it.
         </p><p id="john2-1-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> For many deceivers are entered into the world, who confess not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh. This is a deceiver and an antichrist.
         </p><p id="john2-1-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> Look to yourselves, that we lose not those things which we have wrought, but that we receive a full reward.
         </p><p id="john2-1-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> Whosoever transgresseth, and abideth not in the doctrine of Christ, hath not God. He that abideth in the doctrine of Christ, he hath both the Father and the Son.
         </p><p id="john2-1-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> If there come any unto you, and bring not this doctrine, receive him not into your house, neither bid him God speed:
         </p><p id="john2-1-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> For he that biddeth him God speed is partaker of his evil deeds.
         </p><p id="john2-1-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Having many things to write unto you, I would not write with paper and ink: but I trust to come unto you, and speak face to face, that our joy may be full.
         </p><p id="john2-1-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> The children of thy elect sister greet thee. Amen.
         </p></section>
	</div>
    </body>
</html>
