<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <title>John 3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/kje-bible-books.css" type="text/css"/>
  </head>
  <body>
	<div class="galley-rw">
		<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw exclude-auto-rw page-open-auto-rw" id="Chapter64" epub:type="bodymatter chapter"><div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block66"><h1 id="john3">John 3</h1></div><h2 id="john3-1">Chapter 1</h2><p class="firstpara-rw" id="john3-1-1"><span class="num-verse-rw">1</span> The elder unto the wellbeloved Gaius, whom I love in the truth.
         </p><p id="john3-1-2"><span class="num-verse-rw">2</span> Beloved, I wish above all things that thou mayest prosper and be in health, even as thy soul prospereth.
         </p><p id="john3-1-3"><span class="num-verse-rw">3</span> For I rejoiced greatly, when the brethren came and testified of the truth that is in thee, even as thou walkest in the truth.
         </p><p id="john3-1-4"><span class="num-verse-rw">4</span> I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth.
         </p><p id="john3-1-5"><span class="num-verse-rw">5</span> Beloved, thou doest faithfully whatsoever thou doest to the brethren, and to strangers;
         </p><p id="john3-1-6"><span class="num-verse-rw">6</span> Which have borne witness of thy charity before the church: whom if thou bring forward on their journey after a godly sort, thou shalt do well:
         </p><p id="john3-1-7"><span class="num-verse-rw">7</span> Because that for his name's sake they went forth, taking nothing of the Gentiles.
         </p><p id="john3-1-8"><span class="num-verse-rw">8</span> We therefore ought to receive such, that we might be fellowhelpers to the truth.
         </p><p id="john3-1-9"><span class="num-verse-rw">9</span> I wrote unto the church: but Diotrephes, who loveth to have the preeminence among them, receiveth us not.
         </p><p id="john3-1-10"><span class="num-verse-rw">10</span> Wherefore, if I come, I will remember his deeds which he doeth, prating against us with malicious words: and not content therewith, neither doth he himself receive the brethren, and forbiddeth them that would, and casteth them out of the church.
         </p><p id="john3-1-11"><span class="num-verse-rw">11</span> Beloved, follow not that which is evil, but that which is good. He that doeth good is of God: but he that doeth evil hath not seen God.
         </p><p id="john3-1-12"><span class="num-verse-rw">12</span> Demetrius hath good report of all men, and of the truth itself: yea, and we also bear record; and ye know that our record is true.
         </p><p id="john3-1-13"><span class="num-verse-rw">13</span> I had many things to write, but I will not with ink and pen write unto thee:
         </p><p id="john3-1-14"><span class="num-verse-rw">14</span> But I trust I shall shortly see thee, and we shall speak face to face. Peace be to thee. Our friends salute thee. Greet the friends by name.
         </p></section>
	</div>
    </body>
</html>
